4. 3[(1)    No  issuer  shall  make  any  public  issue  of  non-convertible  redeemable preference shares if as on the date of filing of draft offer document or final offer document as provided in these regulations: (a)  the issuer or the person in control of the issuer or its promoter or its director is  restrained  or  prohibited  or  debarred  by  the  Board  from  accessing  the securities market or dealing in securities; or (b) the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a wilful defaulter or it is in default of payment of interest or repayment of principal amount in respect of non-convertible redeemable preference shares issued by it to the public, if any, for a period of more than six months.]
(2)   No issuer shall make a public issue of non-convertible redeemable preference shares unless the following conditions are satisfied, as on the date of filing of draft offer document and final offer document as provided in these regulations, - (a) it has made an application to one or more recognized stock exchanges for listing of such securities therein: Provided that where the application is made to more than one recognized stock exchanges, the issuer shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange: Provided  further  that  where  any  of  such  stock  exchanges  have nationwide  trading  terminals,  the  issuer shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange; different stock exchange as a designated  stock  exchange  subject  to the requirements of this regulation; (b) it  has  obtained  in-principle  approval  for  listing  of  its  non-convertible redeemable preference shares on the recognized stock exchanges where the application for listing has been made; (c) it  has  obtained  a  credit  rating  from  at  least  one  credit  rating  agency registered with the Board and is  disclosed in the offer document: Provided that where credit ratings are obtained from more than one credit rating agencies, all the ratings,  including the unaccepted ratings, shall be disclosed in the offer document; (d) it has entered into an arrangement  with  a depository registered with the Board for dematerialization of the non-convertible redeemable preference shares that are proposed to be issued to the public, in accordance with the Depositories Act, 1996 and regulations made thereunder; (e) the  minimum  tenure  of  the  non-convertible  redeemable  preference  shares shall not be less than three years; and (f) the issue has been assigned a rating of not less than “AA-”  or equivalent by a credit rating agency registered with the Board.
(3) The  issuer  shall create a capital redemption reserve in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956;
(4) The  issuer  shall  not  issue  non-convertible redeemable preference  shares for providing loan to or acquisition of shares of any person who is part of the same group  or  who  is  under  the  same  management,  other  than  to  subsidiaries  of  the issuer; and "under the same management" shall have the same meaning as provided in the explanation  to  regulation  23  of  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009.
(5)    In case of public issue of non-convertible redeemable preference shares, the issuer shall appoint one or more merchant bankers  registered with the Board at least one of whom shall be a lead merchant banker. Disclosures in the offer document.
5. (1) The  offer  document  shall  contain  all  material  disclosures  which  are necessary for the  subscribers  of the  non -convertible redeemable preference shares to take an informed investment decision.
(2)     Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the issuer and the 6 lead merchant banker shall ensure that the offer document contains the following: (a) (b) (c) the disclosures specified in Schedule II of the Companies Act, 1956; disclosure specified in Schedule I of these regulations; and additional disclosures as may be specified by the Board. likely to impact an investor’s investment decision. Filing of draft offer document.
6. (1)    No  issuer  shall  make  a  public  issue  of'  non-convertible  redeemable preference  shares  unless  a  draft  offer  document  has  been  filed  with  the designated stock exchange through the lead merchant banker.
(2) The draft offer document filed with the designated stock exchange shall be made public by posting the same on the website of the designated stock exchange for seeking public comments for a period of seven working days from the date of filing the draft offer document with such exchange.
(3) The draft offer document may also be displayed on the  website of the issuer,  merchant  bankers  and  the  stock  exchanges  where  the  non-convertible redeemable preference shares are proposed to be listed.
(4) The  lead  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  the  draft  offer  document clearly  specifies  the names  and  contact  particulars of the compliance officer of the lead merchant banker and the issuer including the postal and email address, telephone and fax numbers.
(5) The  lead  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  all  comments  received  on  the draft offer document are suitably addressed prior to the filing of the offer document with the Registrar of Companies.
(6) A copy of draft and final offer document shall also be  forwarded to the Board for its records, 4[along with fees as specified in Schedule III] simultaneously with filing of these documents with designated stock exchange.
(7) The lead  merchant banker shall, prior to filing of the offer document with the Registrar of Companies, furnish to the Board a due diligence certificate as per 7 Schedule II of these regulations. Mode of Disclosure of Offer Document.
7. (1) The  draft  and final  offer  document  shall  be  displayed  on  the  websites  of stock exchanges and shall be available for download in PDF /HTML formats.
(2) The  offer  document  shall  be  filed  with  the  designated  stock  exchange, simultaneously  with  filing  thereof  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies,  for dissemination on its website prior to the opening of the issue.
(3)    Where  any  person  makes  a  request  for  a  physical  copy  of  the  offer document, the same shall be provided to him by the issuer or lead merchant banker. Advertisements for Public issues.
8. (1) The  issuer  shall  make  an  advertisement  in  one  English  national  daily newspaper and one Hindi national daily newspaper with wide circulation at the place where the registered office of the issuer is situated, on or before the issue opening date and such advertisement shall, amongst other things, contain the disclosures as per Schedule I.
(2) No  issuer  shall  issue  an  advertisement  which  is  misleading  in  material particulars  or  which  contains  any  information  in  a  distorted  manner  or  which  is manipulative or deceptive.
(3) The  advertisement  shall  be truthful,  fair  and  clear  and  shall  not  contain  a statement, promise or forecast which is untrue or misleading.
(4) (5) The credit rating shall be prominently displayed in the advertisement. Any advertisement issued by the issuer shall not contain any matters which are extraneous to the contents of the offer document.
(6) The  advertisement  shall  urge  the  investors  to  invest  only  on  the  basis  of information contained in the offer document.
(7) Any  corporate  or  product  advertisement  issued  by  the  issuer  during  the subscription  period  shall  not  make  any  reference  to  the  issue  of  non-convertible redeemable preference shares or be used for solicitation. Abridged Prospectus and application forms. 8
9. (1) The issuer and lead merchant banker shall ensure that: (a) every  application  form  issued  by  the  issuer  is  accompanied  by  a copy of the abridged prospectus; (b) the  abridged  prospectus  shall  not  contain  matters  which  are extraneous to the contents of the prospectus; (c) adequate space shall be provided in the application form to enable the investors to fill in various details like name, address, etc.
(2) The  issuer  may  provide  the  facility  for  subscription  of  application  in electronic mode. Electronic Issuances.
10. An issuer proposing to issue non-convertible redeemable preference shares to the public through the on-line system of the designated stock exchange shall comply with the relevant applicable requirements as may be specified by the Board. Price Discovery through Book Building.
11. The  issuer  may  determine  the  price  of  non-convertible  redeemable  preference shares in consultation with the lead merchant bankers and the issue may be at fixed price or the price may be determined through book building process in  accordance with  the procedure as may be specified by the Board. Redemption.
12. The  issuer  shall  redeem  the  non-convertible  redeemable  preference  shares  in terms of the offer document. Minimum subscription.
13. (1) The  issuer  may  decide  the  amount  of  minimum  subscription  which  it seeks to raise by public issue of non-convertible redeemable preference shares in accordance with the provisions of Companies Act, 1956 and disclose the same in the offer document.
(2) In the event of non-receipt of minimum subscription, all application moneys received  in  the  public  issue  shall  be  refunded  forthwith  to  the  applicants.  In  the 9 event the application monies are refunded beyond eight days from the last day of the offer, then such amounts shall be refunded together with interest at such rate as may be set out in the offer document which shall not be less than fifteen per cent per annum. Underwriting.
14. A  public  issue  of  non-convertible  redeemable  preference  shares  may  be underwritten  by  an  underwriter  registered  with  the  Board  and  in  such  a  case  adequate disclosures regarding underwriting arrangements shall be made in the offer document. Prohibitions of mis-statements in the offer document.
15. (1) The offer document shall not omit disclosure of any material fact which may make the statements made therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, misleading.
(2) The offer document or abridged prospectus or any advertisement issued by an  issuer  in  connection  with  a  public  issue  of  non-convertible  redeemable preference shares shall not contain any false or misleading statement. CHAPTER III LISTING OF NON-CONVERTIBLE REDEEMABLE PREFERENCE SHARES Mandatory listing.
16. (1) An  issuer  desirous  of  making  an  offer  of  non-convertible  redeemable preference shares to the public shall make an application for listing to one or more recognized  stock  exchanges  in  terms  of  sub-section  (1)  of  section  73  of  the Companies Act, 1956.
(2) The issuer shall comply with conditions of listing of such non-convertible redeemable preference shares as specified in the Listing Agreement with the stock exchange where such non-convertible redeemable preference shares are sought to be listed.
(3)  Where  the  issuer  has  disclosed  the  intention  to  seek  listing  of  non- convertible  redeemable  preference  shares  issued  on  private  placement  basis,  the 10 issuer shall forward the listing application along with  the disclosures specified in Schedule I to the recognized stock exchange within  fifteen days from the date of allotment of such non-convertible redeemable preference shares. 5[Listing Agreement.
16A.    (1)      Every issuer desirous of listing its non-convertible redeemable preference shares, or perpetual non-cumulative preference shares or innovative perpetual debt instruments on a recognised stock exchange, shall execute an agreement with such stock exchange.
(2)        Every issuer which has previously entered into agreements with a recognised stock exchange to list non-convertible redeemable preference shares, or perpetual non-cumulative  preference  shares  or  innovative  perpetual  debt  instruments  shall execute a fresh listing agreement with such stock exchange within six  months of the  date  of  notification  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. [. ]6] Conditions  for  listing  of  non-convertible  redeemable  preference  shares  issued  on private placement basis.
17. (1)   An  issuer  may  list  its  non-convertible  redeemable  preference  shares issued on private placement basis on a recognized stock exchange subject to the following conditions: (a) the   issuer   has   issued   such   non-convertible redeemable preference
2015.
16B.    (1) The issuer shall deposit, before the opening of subscription list, and keep deposited with the stock exchange(s)  an  amount  calculated  at  the  rate  of  one  per  cent.  of  the  amount  of  securities  offered  for subscription to the public.
(2) The amount stipulated in sub-regulation (1) shall be deposited in the manner specified by Board and/or stock exchange(s).
(3) The amount stipulated in sub-regulation (1) shall be refundable or forfeitable in the manner specified by the Board.] 11 shares in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act,1956, rules prescribed thereunder and other applicable laws; (b) credit  rating  has  been  obtained  in  respect  of  such  non-convertible redeemable  preference  shares  from  at  least  one  credit  rating  agency registered with the  Board: Provided that where credit ratings are obtained from  more than one credit  rating  agencies,  all  the  ratings  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  offer document; (c) the non-convertible redeemable preference shares proposed to be listed are in dematerialized form; (d) the disclosures  as  provided  in  regulation  18  have been made; (e) the minimum application size for each investor is not less than  ten lakh rupees; and (f) the  issue  is  in  compliance  with  sub-regulation  (3)  and  (4)  of regulation 4. 7[(g)      where  the  application  is  made  to  more  than  one  recognised  stock exchange, the issuer shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange.]
(2) The issuer shall comply with conditions of listing of such non-convertible redeemable preference shares as specified in the Listing Agreement with the stock exchange where such non-convertible redeemable preference shares are sought to be listed. Disclosures in respect of private placements of non-convertible redeemable preference shares.
18. (1) The  issuer  making  a  private  placement  of  non-convertible  redeemable preference shares and seeking listing thereof on a recognized stock exchange shall make  disclosures  as  specified  in  Schedule  I  of  these regulations  accompanied by  the  latest  Annual  Report  of  the issuer. 12
(2) The disclosures as provided in sub-regulation (1) shall be made on the web sites of stock exchanges where such securities are proposed to be listed and shall be available for download in PDF / HTML formats. Relaxation of strict enforcement of rule 19 of Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules,
1957.
19. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (7) of rule 19 of the Securities Contracts  (Regulations)  Rules,  1957,  the  Board  hereby  relaxes  the  strict enforcement  of  sub-rules  (1)  and  (3)  of  rule  19  of  the  said  rules  in  relation  to listing of non-convertible redeemable preference shares issued by way of a public issue or a private placement. CHAPTER IV CONDITIONS FOR CONTINUOUS LISTING AND TRADING OF NON- CONVERTIBLE REDEEMABLE PREFERENCE SHARES Continuous Listing Conditions.
20. (1)   All  the  issuers  making  public  issues  of  non-convertible  redeemable preference  shares  or  seeking  listing  of  non-convertible  redeemable  preference shares  issued  on  private  placement  basis  shall  comply  with  the  conditions  of listing  specified  in  the  respective  listing  agreement  for  non-convertible redeemable preference shares.
(2) & (3) 8[***]
(4) The  issuer  and  stock  exchanges  shall  disseminate  all  information  and reports  on  non-convertible  redeemable  preference  shares  including  compliance reports  filed  by  the  issuers  regarding  the  non-convertible  redeemable  preference shares to the investors and the general public by placing them on their websites.
2015. Prior to its omission, sub regulations (2) and (3) read as under:
“(2) Each rating obtained by an issuer shall be reviewed by the registered credit rating agency at least once a year and any revision in the rating shall be promptly disclosed by the issuer to the stock exchange(s) where the non-convertible redeemable preference shares are listed.
(3)  Any  change  in  rating  shall  be  promptly  disseminated  to  investors  and  prospective  investors  in  such manner as the stock exchange where such securities are listed may determine from time to time.” 13 Trading of non-convertible redeemable preference shares.
21. (1) The non-convertible redeemable preference shares issued to the public or on  a  private  placement  basis,  which  are  listed  in recognized  stock  exchanges, shall be traded and such trades shall be cleared and settled in recognized stock exchanges subject to conditions specified by the Board.
(2) In case of trades of non-convertible redeemable preference shares which have been made over the counter, such trades shall be reported on a recognized stock exchange having a nation-wide trading terminal or such other platform as may be specified by the Board.
(3) The  Board  may  specify  conditions  for  reporting  of  trades  on  the recognized stock exchange or other platform referred to in sub-regulation (2). CHAPTER V OBLIGATIONS OF INTERMEDIARIES AND ISSUERS Obligations of the Issuer, Lead Merchant Banker, etc.
22. (1) The  issuer  shall  disclose  all  the  material  facts  in  the  offer  documents issued or distributed to the public and shall ensure that all the disclosures made in the offer document are true, fair and adequate and there is no mis-leading or untrue statements or mis-statement in the offer document.
(2) The Merchant Banker shall verify and confirm that the disclosures made in the  offer  documents  are  true,  fair  and  adequate  and  ensure  that  the  issuer  is  in compliance  with  these  regulations  as  well  as  all  transaction  specific  disclosures required in Schedule I of these regulations and Schedule II of the Companies Act,
1956. (3) The  issuer  shall  treat  the  applicants  in  a  public  issue  of  non-convertible redeemable preference shares in a fair and equitable manner as per the procedures as may be specified by the Board.
(4) The intermediaries shall be responsible for the due diligence in respect of assignments  undertaken  by  them  in  respect  of  issue,  offer  and  distribution  of securities to the public. 14
(5) No  person  shall  employ  any  device,  scheme  or  artifice  to  defraud  in connection with issue or subscription or distribution of non-convertible redeemable preference shares which are listed or proposed to be listed on a recognized stock exchange. ISSUANCE AND LISTING OF NON-EQUITY REGULATORY CAPITAL CHAPTER VI INSTRUMENTS BY BANKS Applicability to other instruments.
23. (1)    These provisions of these regulations shall, so far as they may, apply to the issuance  and  listing  of  Perpetual  Non-Cumulative  Preference  Shares  and Innovative Perpetual Debt Instruments by banks.
(2)   No issuer other than a bank shall issue the instruments mentioned in sub- regulation (1).
(3)  A  bank  may  issue  such  instruments  subject  to  the  prior  approval  and  in compliance with the Guidelines issued by Reserve Bank of India.
(4)   If a bank is incorporated as a company under Companies Act, 1956, it shall, in  addition,  comply  with  the  provisions  of  Companies  Act,  1956  and/or  other applicable statues.
(5)    The bank shall comply with the terms and conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time and shall make adequate disclosures in the offer document regarding the features of these instruments and relevant risk factors and if such instruments are listed, shall comply with the listing requirements. POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 9[CHAPTER VI-A Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
23A.     (1)    The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified 15 but  not  exceeding  twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological aspects relating to testing new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)    Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to  the  applicant  satisfying  such  conditions  as  may  be  specified  by  the  Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. a  live  testing  environment  where  new  products,  processes,  services,  business models, etc. may be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board.] CHAPTER VII MISCELLANEOUS Inspection by the Board.
24. (1)  Without prejudice to the provisions of sections 11 and 11C of  the Act and section 209A of the Companies Act, the Board may suo motu or upon information received by  it,  appoint  one  or more  persons  to  undertake  the  inspection  of  the  books  of  account, records  and  documents  of  the  issuer  or  merchant  banker  or  any  other  intermediary associated  with  the  public  issue,  disclosure  or  listing  of  non-convertible  redeemable preference shares, as governed under these regulations, for any of the purposes specified in sub-regulation (2).
(2) The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) may be as follows, namely:- (a) to  verify  whether  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  Companies  Act,  1956,  Securities Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956,  Depositories  Act,  1996,  the  rules  and regulations made thereunder in respect of issue of securities have been complied with; (b) to verify whether the requirement in respect of issue of securities as specified in these regulations has been complied with; (c) to verify whether the requirement of listing conditions and continuous disclosure requirement have been complied with; 16 (d) to inquire into the complaints received from investors, other market participants or any other persons on any matter of issue and transfer of securities governed under these regulations; (e) to  inquire  into  affairs  of  the  issuer  in  the  interest  of  investor  protection  or  the integrity of the market governed under these regulations; (f) to inquire whether any direction issued by the Board has been complied with.
(3)  While undertaking an inspection under these regulations, the inspecting authority or the Board, as the case may be, shall follow the procedure specified by the Board for inspection of the intermediaries. Power to issue directions.
25. (1)  Without  prejudice to  its powers under Chapter VIA and section 24 of the Act,  the  Board  may,  in  the  interest  of  investors  in  securities  market,  issue  such directions as it deems fit under section 11 or section 11A or section 11B or section 11D of the Act including: (a)  directing the issuer to refund of the application monies to the applicants in a public issue; (b)  directing  the  persons  concerned  not  to  further  deal  in  securities  in  any particular manner; (c)  directing  the  persons  concerned  not  to  access  the  securities  market  for  a particular period; (d) restraining the issuer or its promoters or directors from making further issues of securities; (e)  directing the person concerned to sell or divest the securities; (f)  directing the issuer or the depository not to give effect  transfer or directing further freeze of transfer of securities; (g)  any other direction which Board may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of the case: Provided that the Board shall, either before or after issuing such directions, give an opportunity of being heard to the persons against whom the directions are issued or proposed to be issued: 17 Provided further that, if, any ex-parte direction is required to be issued, the Board may give post decisional hearing to affected person. Power of the Board to issue general order or circular.
26. (1)  The  Board  may  by  a  general  or  special  order  or  circular  specify  any  conditions  or requirement in respect of issue of non-convertible redeemable preference shares.
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power and provisions of these regulations, such orders or circulars may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely: (a)  Electronic issuances and other issue procedures including the procedure for price discovery; (b)  Conditions governing trading, reporting, clearing and settlement of trade in non-convertible redeemable preference shares; or (c)  Listing conditions.
(3)  If  any  special  order  is  proposed  to  be  issued  to  any  particular  issuer  or intermediary on a specific issue, no such order shall be issued unless an opportunity to represent is given to the person affected by such order. Power to remove difficulty.
27. (1) In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  application  or  interpretation  of these  regulations,  the  Board  may  issue  clarifications  or  grant  relaxations  from application requirement or conditions of these regulations, after recording reasons therefor.
3. (1)  On  and  from  the  commencement  of  these  regulations,  no  person  shall  act  as  an investment adviser or hold itself out as an investment adviser unless he has obtained a certificate of registration from the Board under these regulations: 9[***] 10[(1A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), any application made by a person prior to coming into force of these regulations containing such particulars or as near thereto as mentioned in Form A of First Schedule shall be treated as an application made in pursuance of sub-regulation (1) and dealt with accordingly;]
(2)  An application for grant of certificate of registration shall be made in Form A as specified in the First Schedule to these regulations and shall be accompanied by a non- refundable application fee to be paid in the manner specified in Second Schedule.
11[(3)  On  and  from  the  date  of  commencement  of  these  regulations,  no  person,  while dealing in distribution of securities, shall use the nomenclature “Independent Financial Adviser or IFA or Wealth Adviser or any other similar name” unless registered with the Board as Investment Adviser.”] Exemption from registration.
4. The following persons shall not be required to seek registration under regulation 3 subject to the fulfillment of the conditions stipulated therefor, — (a)  Any person who gives general comments in  good faith in regard to trends in the financial or securities market or the economic situation where such comments do not specify any particular securities or investment product; (b)  Any  insurance  agent  or  insurance  broker  who  offers  investment  advice  solely  in insurance products and is registered with Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority for such activity; (c)  Any pension advisor who offers investment advice solely on pension products and is registered with Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority for such activity; (d)  Any distributor of mutual funds, who is a member of a self regulatory organisation recognised by the Board or is registered with an association of asset management companies of mutual funds, providing any investment advice to its clients incidental to its primary activity; (e)  Any advocate, solicitor or law firm, who provides investment advice to their clients, incidental to their legal practise; (f)  Any member of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, Institute of Company Secretaries of India, Institute of Cost and Works Accountants of India, Actuarial Society of India or any other professional body as may be specified by the Board, who  provides  investment  advice  to  their  clients,  incidental  to  his  professional service; (g)  Any  stock  broker  or  sub-broker  registered  under  SEBI  (Stock  Broker  and  Sub- Broker)  Regulations,  1992,  portfolio  manager  registered  under  SEBI  (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 1993 or merchant banker registered under SEBI (Merchant Bankers)  Regulations,  1992,  who  provides  any  investment  advice  to  its  clients incidental to their primary activity: Provided that such intermediaries shall comply with the general obligation(s) and responsibilities as specified in Chapter III of these regulations: 5 Provided further that existing portfolio manager offering only investment advisory services  may  apply  for  registration  under  these  regulations  after  expiry  of  his current certificate of registration as a portfolio manager; (h)  Any  fund  manager,  by  whatever  name  called  of  a  mutual  fund,  alternative investment fund or any other intermediary or entity registered with the Board; (i)  Any  person  who  provides  investment  advice  exclusively  to  clients  based  out  of India: Provided  that  persons  providing  investment  advice  to  Non-Resident  Indian  or Person of Indian Origin shall fall within the purview of these regulations; (j)  Any  12[principal  officer,  persons  associated  with  advice]  and  partner  of  an investment adviser which is registered under these regulations: Provided that such 13[principal officer, persons associated with advice] and partner shall comply with regulation 7 of these regulations; (k)  Any other person as may be specified by the Board. Furnishing of further information, clarification and personal representation.
5. (1)  The Board may require the applicant to furnish further information or clarification regarding  matters  relevant  to  investment  advisory  services  for  the  purpose  of consideration of the application filed under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3.
(2)  The applicant or his authorised representative, if so required, shall appear before the Board for personal representation. Consideration of application and eligibility criteria.
6. For the purpose of the grant of certificate the Board shall take into account all matters which are relevant to the grant of certificate of registration and in particular the following, namely, — (a)  whether the applicant is an individual or 14[a non-individual]; 15[(b) in case the applicant is an individual, he and all persons associated with investment advice are appropriately qualified and certified as specified in regulation 7;] 16[(c)  in  case  the  applicant  is  a  body  corporate,  the  principal  officer  and  all  persons associated with investment advice of the applicant are appropriately qualified and certified as specified in regulation 7;] 17[(d) in case the applicant is a firm or a limited liability partnership, the principal officer and all persons associated with investment advice of the applicant are appropriately qualified and certified as specified in regulation 7;] (e)  whether the applicant fulfills the 18[networth] requirements as specified in regulation 8; 19[(f)  whether  the  applicant,  its  partners,  principal  officer  and  persons  associated  with investment  advice,  if  any,  are  fit  and  proper  persons  based  on  the  criteria  as specified  in  Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008;] (g)  whether the applicant has the necessary infrastructure to effectively discharge the activities of an investment adviser; (h)  whether  the  applicant  or  any  person  directly  or  indirectly  connected  with  the applicant has in the past been refused certificate by the Board and if so, the grounds for such refusal; (i)  whether any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board or any other regulatory authority against any person directly or indirectly connected to the applicant under the respective Act, rules or regulations made thereunder; (j) (k) In case a bank or an NBFC proposes to undertake investment advisory services, whether it has been permitted by Reserve Bank of India and the application is made through a subsidiary or separately identifiable department or division; In  case  any  20[non-individual],  other  than  a  Bank  or  NBFC,  which  proposes  to undertake investment advisory services, whether, the application is made through a separately identifiable department or division; substitution, clause (c) read as under; “whether in case the applicant is a body corporate, all the representatives of the applicant who provide investment advice are appropriately qualified and certified as specified in regulation 7;” substitution, clause (d) read as under; “whether in case the applicant is a firm or a limited liability partnership, all partners who are engaged in giving investment advice are qualified and certified as specified in regulation 7;” (l) In  case  an  entity  incorporated  outside  India  undertakes  to  provide  investment advisory  services  under  these  regulations,  whether,  it  has  set  up  a  subsidiary  in India and whether such subsidiary has made the application for registration; (m)  In  case  a  foreign  citizen  proposes  to  undertake  investment  advisory  services, whether  the  applicant  has  set  up  an  office  in  India  and  proposes  to  undertake investment advisory services through such office. 21[Qualification and certification requirement.
7. (1) An individual investment adviser or a principal officer of a non-individual investment adviser  registered  as  an  investment  adviser  under  these  regulations,  shall  have  the following minimum qualification, at all times - (a)  A  professional  qualification  or  post-graduate  degree  or  post  graduate  diploma (minimum two years in duration) in finance, accountancy, business management, commerce, economics, capital market, banking, insurance or actuarial science from a university or an institution recognized by the Central Government or any State Government  or  a  recognised  foreign  university  or  institution  or  association  or  a CFA Charter from the CFA Institute; (b)  An  experience  of  at  least  five  years  in  activities  relating  to  advice  in  financial products or securities or fund or asset or portfolio management; substitution, regulation 7 read as under; “Qualification and certification requirement. An  individual  registered  as  an  investment  adviser  under  these  regulations  and  partners  and
7(1) representatives of an investment adviser registered under these regulations offering investment advice shall have the following minimum qualifications, at all times: (a) A  professional  qualification  or  post-graduate  degree  or  post  graduate  diploma  in  finance, accountancy,  business  management,  commerce,  economics,  capital  market,  banking,  insurance  or actuarial science from a university or an institution recognized by the central government or any state government or a recognised foreign university or institution or association; or (b)  A graduate in any discipline with an experience of at least five years in activities relating to advice in financial products or securities or fund or asset or portfolio management.
(2) An  individual  registered  as  an  investment  adviser  and  partners  and  representatives  of  investment advisers registered under these regulations offering investment advice shall have, at all times, a certification on financial planning or fund or asset or portfolio management or investment advisory services: (a) (b) from NISM; or from any other organization or institution including Financial Planning Standards Board India or any recognized stock exchange in India provided that such certification is accredited by NISM.: Provided that the existing investment advisers seeking registration under these regulations shall ensure that their partners and representatives obtain such certification within two years from the date of commencement of these regulations: Provided further that fresh certification must be obtained before expiry of the validity of the existing certification to ensure continuity in compliance with certification requirements.” (c)  Persons  associated  with  investment  advice  shall  meet  the  following  minimum qualifications, at all times - (i) a professional qualification as provided in clause (a) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 7; and (ii) an experience of at least two years in activities relating to advice in financial products or securities or fund or asset or portfolio management: Provided that investment advisers registered under these regulations as on the date of commencement of these regulations shall ensure that the individual investment adviser or principal officer of a non-individual investment adviser registered under these regulations and persons associated with investment advice comply with such qualification and experience requirements within three years: Provided further that the requirements at clauses (a) and (b) shall not apply to such existing individual investment advisers as may be specified by the Board.
(2) An individual investment adviser or principal officer of a non-individual investment adviser, registered under these regulations and persons associated with investment advice shall have, at all times a certification on financial planning or fund or asset or portfolio management or investment advisory services - (a)from NISM; or (b)from any other organization or institution including Financial Planning Standards Board of India or any recognized stock exchange in India provided such certification is accredited by NISM: Provided  that  fresh  certification  must  be  obtained  before  expiry  of  the  validity  of  the existing certification to ensure continuity in compliance with certification requirements: Provided  further  that  fresh  certification  before  expiry  of  the  validity  of  the  existing certification shall not be obtained through a CPE program.]
22[Networth. substitution, regulation 8 read as under; “Capital adequacy.
(1) Investment advisers which are body corporate shall have a net worth of not less than twenty five lakh rupees. plus free reserves (excluding reserves created out of revaluation) reduced by the aggregate value of accumulated losses,  deferred  expenditure  not  written  off,  including  miscellaneous  expenses  not  written  off,  and  capital adequacy  requirement  for  other  services  offered  by  the  advisers  in  accordance  with  the  applicable  rules  and regulations.
(2) Investment advisers who are individuals or partnership firms shall have net tangible assets of value not less than rupees one lakh: Provided that existing investment advisers shall comply with the capital adequacy requirement within one year from the date of commencement of these regulations.” 9
8. (1) Investment advisers who are non-individuals shall have a net worth of not less than fifty lakh rupees. of paid up share capital plus free reserves (excluding reserves created out of revaluation) reduced by the aggregate value of accumulated losses, deferred expenditure not written off, including miscellaneous expenses not written off, and networth requirement for other services offered by the advisers in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations.
(2) Investment advisers who are individuals shall have net tangible assets of value not less than five lakh rupees: Provided that existing investment advisers shall comply with the networth requirement within three years from the date of commencement of the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020.] Grant of certificate of registration.
9. The Board on being satisfied that the applicant complies with the requirements specified in regulation 6 shall send intimation to the applicant and on receipt of the payment of registration 23[***] fees as specified in Second Schedule, grant certificate of registration in Form B under First Schedule, subject to such terms and conditions as the Board may deem fit and appropriate. Period of validity of certificate.
10.  The  certificate  of  registration  granted  under  regulation  9  shall  be  valid  24[till  it  is suspended or cancelled by the Board.] Renewal of certificate. 25[The investment adviser which has already been granted certificate of registration by the Board, prior to  the  commencement of the Securities and  Exchange Board of  India (Change  in  Conditions  of  Registration  of  Certain  Intermediaries)  (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 shall be deemed to have been granted a certificate of registration, in terms of sub-regulation (1).]
11. The investment adviser which has already been granted certificate of registration by the Board, prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Conditions of Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 shall be deemed to have been granted a certificate of registration, in terms of sub-regulation (1). Procedure where registration is refused.
12. (1)  After  considering  an  application  made  under  regulation  3,  if the  Board  is  of  the opinion  that  a  certificate  should  not  be  granted  to  the  applicant,  it  may  reject  the application after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(2)  The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the applicant within thirty days of such decision.
(3)  Where an application for a certificate is rejected by the Board, the applicant shall forthwith cease to act as an investment adviser: Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall affect the liability of the applicant towards its existing clients under law. Conditions of certificate.
13.  The certificate  granted under regulation  9 shall,  inter alia, be subject  to  the following conditions:- (a) (b) the investment adviser shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations; the  investment  adviser  shall  forthwith  inform  the  Board  in  writing,  if  any information or particulars previously submitted to the Board are found to be false or  misleading  in  any  material  particular  or  if  there  is  any  material  change  in  the information already submitted; (c) the investment adviser, not being an individual, shall include the words ‘investment adviser’ in its name: Provided that if the investment advisory service is being provided by a separately identifiable department or division or a subsidiary, then such separately identifiable department or division or subsidiary shall include the words ‘investment adviser’ in its name; (d) individuals registered as investment advisers shall use the term ‘investment adviser’ in all their correspondences with their clients26[;] 27[(e) individuals registered as investment advisers whose number of clients exceed one hundred and fifty in total, shall apply for registration as non-individual investment adviser within such time as may be specified by the Board.] Recognition of body or body corporate for regulation of investment advisers.
14. (1)  The Board may recognize any body or body corporate for the purpose of regulating investment advisers.
09-2020. 11
(2)  The Board may, at the time of recognition of such body or body corporate, delegate administration and supervision of investment advisers to such body or body corporate on such terms and conditions as may be specified by the Board.
(3)  The Board may specify that no person shall act as an investment adviser unless he is  a  member  of  a  recognized  body  or  body  corporate  and  in  such  event,  provisions  of these  regulations  and  byelaws  or  articles  of  such  body  or  body  corporate  shall  apply mutatis mutandis to such investment advisers. CHAPTER III GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES General responsibility.
15. (1)  An investment adviser shall act in a fiduciary capacity towards its clients and shall disclose all conflicts of interests as and when they arise.
(2) An investment adviser shall not receive any consideration by way of remuneration or compensation or in any other form from any person other than the client being advised, in respect of the underlying products or securities for which advice is provided.
(3)  An  investment  adviser  shall  maintain  an  arms-length  relationship  between  its activities as an investment adviser and other activities.
(4)  An  investment  adviser  which  is  also  engaged  in  activities  other  than  investment advisory services shall ensure that its investment advisory services are clearly segregated from all its other activities, in the manner as prescribed hereunder.
(5)  An  investment  adviser  shall  ensure  that  in  case  of  any  conflict  of  interest  of  the investment  advisory  activities  with  other  activities,  such  conflict  of  interest  shall  be disclosed to the client.
(6)  An  investment  adviser  shall  not  divulge  any  confidential  information  about  its client, which has come to its knowledge, without taking prior permission of its clients, except where such disclosures are required to be made in compliance with any law for the time being in force.
(7)  An investment advisor shall not enter into transactions on its own account which is contrary to its advice given to clients for a period of fifteen days from the day of such advice. Provided that during the period of such fifteen days, if the investment adviser is of the opinion that the situation has changed, then it may enter into such a transaction on its own account after giving such revised assessment to the client at least 24 hours in advance of entering into such transaction.
(8)  An investment advisor shall follow Know Your Client procedure as specified by the Board from time to time. 12
(9)  An  investment  adviser  shall  abide  by  Code  of  Conduct  as  specified  in  Third Schedule.
(10) An  investment  adviser  shall  not  act  on  its  own  account,  knowingly  to  sell securities or investment products to or purchase securities or investment product from a client.
(11)  In case of change in control of the investment adviser, prior approval from the Board shall be taken.
(12)  Investment advisers shall furnish to the Board information and reports as may be specified by the Board from time to time.
28[(13) It shall be the responsibility of the investment adviser to ensure compliance with the  certification  and  qualification  requirements  as  specified  under  Regulation  7  at  all times.]
29[Fees.
15A. Investment Adviser shall be entitled to charge fees for providing investment advice from a client in the manner as specified by the Board.] Risk profiling.
16. Investment adviser shall ensure that,- (a)  it obtains from the client, such information as is necessary for the purpose of giving investment advice, including the following:- (i)  age; (ii)  investment objectives including time for which they wish to stay invested, the purposes of the investment ; (iii)  income details; (iv)  existing investments/ assets; (v)  risk appetite/ tolerance; (vi)  liability/borrowing details. (b)  it has a process for assessing the risk a client is willing and able to take, including: (i)  assessing a client’s capacity for absorbing loss; (ii)  identifying  whether  client  is  unwilling  or  unable  to  accept  the  risk  of  loss  of capital; (iii)  appropriately  interpreting  client  responses  to  questions  and  not  attributing inappropriate weight to certain answers. (c)  where tools are used for risk profiling, it should be ensured that the tools are fit for the purpose and any limitations are identified and mitigated; (d)  any questions or description in any questionnaires used to establish the risk a client is willing and able to take are fair, clear and not misleading, and should ensure that: (i)  questionnaire is  not  vague or use double negatives or in  a complex language that the client may not understand; (ii)  questionnaire is not structured in a way that it contains leading questions. (e)  risk profile of the client is communicated to the client after risk assessment is done; (f) information provided by clients and their risk assessment is updated periodically. Suitability.
17. Investment adviser shall ensure that,- (a)  All  investments  on which investment  advice is  provided is  appropriate to  the risk profile of the client; (b)  It has a documented process for selecting investments based on client’s investment objectives and financial situation; (c)  It understands the nature and risks of products or assets selected for clients; (d)  It has a reasonable basis for believing that a recommendation or transaction entered into: (i)  meets the client’s investment objectives; (ii) is  such  that  the  client  is  able  to  bear  any  related  investment  risks  consistent with its investment objectives and risk tolerance; (iii)  is  such  that  the  client  has  the  necessary  experience  and  knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the transaction. (e)  Whenever a recommendation is given to a client to purchase of a particular complex financial  product,  such  recommendation  or  advice  is  based  upon  a  reasonable assessment that the structure and risk reward profile of financial product is consistent with clients experience, knowledge, investment objectives, risk appetite and capacity for absorbing loss. Disclosures to clients.
18. (1)  An  investment  adviser  shall  disclose  to  a  prospective  client,  all  material information  about  itself  including  its  business,  disciplinary  history,  the  terms  and conditions on which it offers advisory services, affiliations with other intermediaries and 14 such other information as is necessary to take an informed decision on whether or not to avail its services. 30[***]
(4)  An investment adviser shall disclose to the client its holding or position, if any, in the financial products or securities which are subject matter of advice.
(5)  An investment adviser shall disclose to the client any actual or potential conflicts of  interest  arising  from  any  connection  to  or  association  with  any  issuer  of  products/ securities,  including  any  material  information  or  facts  that  might  compromise  its objectivity or independence in the carrying on of investment advisory services.
(6)  An investment adviser shall, while making an investment advice, make adequate disclosure to the client of all material facts relating to the key features of the products or securities, particularly, performance track record.
(7)   An investment adviser shall draw the client’s attention to the warnings, disclaimers in  documents,  advertising  materials  relating  to  an  investment  product  which  it  is recommending to the client. Maintenance of records.
19. (1)   An investment adviser shall maintain the following records,- (a)  Know Your Client records of the client; (b)  Risk profiling and risk assessment of the client; (c)  Suitability assessment of the advice being provided; 31[(d) Copies of agreements with clients, incorporating the terms and conditions as may be specified by the Board;] (e)  Investment advice provided, whether written or oral; (f)  Rationale for arriving at investment advice, duly signed and dated; omission, sub-regulation (2) and (3) read as under;
“(2) An investment adviser shall disclose to its client, any consideration by way of remuneration or compensation or  in  any  other  form  whatsoever,  received  or  receivable  by  it  or  any  of  its  associates  or  subsidiaries  for  any distribution  or  execution  services  in  respect  of  the  products  or  securities  for  which  the  investment  advice  is provided to the client.
(3) An investment adviser shall, before recommending the services of a stock broker or other intermediary to a client, disclose any consideration by way of remuneration or compensation or in any other form whatsoever, if any,  received  or  receivable  by  the  investment  adviser,  if  the  client  desires  to  avail  the  services  of  such intermediary.” (g)  A register or record containing list of the clients, the date of advice, nature of the advice, the products/securities in which advice was rendered and fee, if any charged for such advice.
(2) All records shall be maintained either in physical or electronic form and preserved for a minimum period of five years: Provided  that  where  records  are  required  to  be  duly  signed  and  are  maintained  in electronic form, such records shall be digitally signed.
(3) An investment adviser shall conduct yearly audit in respect of compliance with these regulations from a member of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India or Institute of Company Secretaries of India 32[and submit a report of the same as may be specified by the Board]. Appointment of compliance officer.
20. An investment adviser which is a body corporate or a partnership firm shall appoint a compliance  officer  who  shall  be  responsible  for  monitoring  the  compliance  by  the investment adviser in respect of the requirements of the Act, regulations, notifications, guidelines, instructions issued by the Board. Redressal of client grievances.
21. (1)  An investment adviser shall redress client grievances promptly.
(2)  An  investment  adviser  shall  have  adequate  procedure  for  expeditious  grievance redressal.
(3)  Client grievances pertaining to financial products in which investments have been made based on investment advice, shall fall within the purview of the regulator of such financial product.
(4)  Any dispute between the investment adviser and his client may be resolved through arbitration  or  through  Ombudsman  authorized  or  appointed  for  the  purpose  by  any regulatory authority, as applicable. 33[Client level segregation of advisory and distribution activities. substitution, regulation 22 read as under; “Segregation of execution services. 22 Investment advisers which are banks, NBFCs and body corporate providing distribution  or execution services to their clients shall keep their investment advisory services segregated from such activities: Provided that such distribution or execution services can only be offered subject to the following: (a)  The client shall  not be under  any obligation to avail the distribution or execution  services offered by the investment adviser. (b)  The investment adviser shall maintain arms length relationship between its activities as investment adviser and distribution or execution services. 16
22. (1) An individual investment adviser shall not provide distribution services.
(2)  The family of an individual investment adviser shall not provide distribution services to the client advised by the individual investment adviser and no individual investment adviser shall provide advice to a client who is receiving distribution services from other family members.
(3) A non-individual investment adviser shall have client level segregation at group level for investment advisory and distribution services. (i)   The same client cannot be offered both advisory and distribution services within the group of the non-individual entity. (ii)  A  client  can  either  be  an  advisory  client  where  no  distributor  consideration  is received  at  the  group  level  or  distribution  services  client  where  no  advisory  fee  is collected from the client at the group level. (iii)  ‘Group’  for  this  purpose  shall  mean  an  entity  which  is  a  holding,  subsidiary, associate, subsidiary of a holding company to which it is also a subsidiary or an investing company or the venturer of the company as per the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 for non-individual investment adviser which is a company under the said Act and in any other  case,  an  entity  which  has  a  controlling  interest  or  is  subject  to  the  controlling interest of a non-individual investment adviser.
(4)  Non-individual  investment  adviser  shall  maintain  an  arm’s  length  relationship between its activities as investment adviser and distributor by providing advisory services through a separately identifiable department or division.
(5) Compliance and monitoring process for client segregation at group or family level shall be in accordance with the guidelines specified by the Board.] 34[Implementation of advice or execution.
22A. (1)  Investment  adviser may provide implementation services to  the advisory clients  in securities market: Provided  that  investment  advisers  shall  ensure  that  no  consideration  including  any commission  or  referral  fees,  whether  embedded  or  indirect  or  otherwise,  by  whatever name called is received; directly or indirectly, at investment adviser’s group or family level for the said service, as the case maybe.
(2)  Investment adviser shall provide implementation services to its advisory clients only through direct schemes/products in the securities market.
(3)  Investment  adviser  or  group  or  family  of  investment  adviser  shall  not  charge  any (c)  All fees and charges paid to distribution or execution service providers by the client shall be paid directly to the service providers and not through the investment adviser.” implementation fees from the client.
(4) The client shall not be under any obligation to avail implementation services offered by the investment adviser.] CHAPTER IV INSPECTION Board’s right to inspect.
23.  The Board may suo motu or upon receipt of information or complaint appoint one or more persons as inspecting authority to undertake inspection of the books of accounts, records and documents relating to investment advisers for any of the following reasons, namely: - (a) (b) (c) (d) to ensure that the books of account, records and documents are being maintained by the investment adviser in the manner specified in these regulations; to inspect into complaints received from clients or any other person, on any matter having a bearing on the activities of the investment adviser; to  ascertain  whether  the  provisions  of  the  Act  and  these  regulations  are  being complied with by the investment adviser; to inspect into the affairs of a investment adviser, in the interest of the securities market or in the interest of investors. Notice before inspection.
24. (1)  Before  ordering  an  inspection  under  regulation  23,  the  Board  shall  give  not  less than ten days notice to the investment adviser.
(2)    Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  where  the  Board  is satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may by an order in writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the investment adviser be taken up without such notice.
(3)    During  the  course  of  an  inspection,  the  investment  adviser  against  whom  the inspection is being carried out shall be bound to discharge its obligations as provided in regulation 25. Obligation of investment adviser on inspection.
25. (1) It shall be the duty of every investment adviser in respect of whom an inspection has  been  ordered  under  the  regulation  23  and  any  other  associate  person  who  is  in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of such investment adviser,  including  35[partners,  directors,  principal  officer  and  persons  associated  with investment advice], if any, to produce to the inspecting authority such books, accounts and other documents in his custody or control and furnish him with such statements and information as the inspecting authority may require for the purposes of inspection.
(2) It shall be the duty of every investment adviser and any other associate person who is  in  possession  of  relevant  information  pertaining  to  conduct  and  affairs  of  the investment adviser to give to the inspecting authority all such assistance and shall extend all  such  co-operation  as  may  be  required  in  connection  with  the  inspection  and  shall furnish  such  information  as  sought  by  the  inspecting  authority  in  connection  with  the inspection.
(3)  The  inspecting  authority  shall,  for  the  purposes  of  inspection,  have  power  to examine  on  oath  and  record  the  statement  of  any  employees,  directors,  partners  36[, principal officer and persons  associated with  investment  advice]  or person responsible for or connected with the activities of investment adviser or any other associate person having relevant information pertaining to such investment adviser.
(4)  The inspecting authority shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to obtain authenticated  copies  of  documents,  books,  accounts  of  investment  adviser,  from  any person having control or custody of such documents, books or accounts. Submission of report to the Board.
26.  The inspecting authority shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection submit an inspection report to the Board: Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, the inspecting authority may submit an interim report. Action on the inspection report.
27.  The Board may after consideration of the inspection report and after giving reasonable opportunity of hearing to the investment advisers or its authorized representatives, issue such  directions  as  it  deems  fit  in  the  interest  of  securities  market  or  the  investors including,- (a)  requiring an investment adviser 37[, partners, directors, principal officer and persons associated with investment advice] not to provide investment advice for a particular period; (b)  requiring the investment adviser to refund any money collected as fees, charges or commissions or otherwise to the concerned clients along with the requisite interest. (c)  prohibiting  the  investment  adviser  38[,  partners,  directors,  principal  officer  and persons associated with investment advice] from operating in the capital market or accessing the capital market for a specified period. 38 ibid. 19 CHAPTER V PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT Liability for action in case of default.
28.  An investment adviser who - (a)  contravenes any of the provisions of the Act or any regulations or circulars issued thereunder; (b)  fails to furnish any information relating to its activity as an investment adviser as required by the Board; (c)  furnishes to the Board information which is false or misleading in any material particular; (d)  does not submit periodic returns or reports as required by the Board; (e)  does not co-operate in any enquiry, inspection or investigation conducted by the Board; (f)  fails to resolve the complaints of investors or fails to give a satisfactory reply to the Board in this behalf, shall be dealt with in the manner provided under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008. 39[CHAPTER V-A POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
28A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)  Any  exemption  granted  by  the  Board  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  subject  to  the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. 20 testing  environment  where  new  products,  processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  may  be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time,  for furthering innovation  in  the  securities  market,  subject  to  such  conditions  as  may  be  specified  by  the Board.] CHAPTER VI MISCELLANEOUS Power of the Board to issue clarifications etc.
29. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of circulars. Power of the Board over body or body corporate recognized under regulation 14.
3. (1) No person shall establish a Depository unless he has obtained registration from the Board in accordance with the Act, the Depositories Act, 1996 and these regulations.
(2) An application for the grant of a certificate of registration as a depository shall be made to the Board by  an applicant  in Form  A of the First Schedule, shall be accompanied by the fee specified  in  Part  A  of  the  Second  Schedule  and  be  paid  in  the  manner  specified  in  Part  B thereof.
(3) The application shall be accompanied by draft bye-laws of the depository that is proposed to be set-up. Application to conform to the requirements
4. An application in Form A of the First Schedule which is not complete in all respects and does not conform to the instructions specified therein shall be rejected: Provided that before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given in writing an opportunity  to  remove,  within  thirty  days  of  the  date  of  communication  in  this  regard,  the objections indicated by the Board: 3 Provided further that the Board may, on being satisfied that it is necessary to extend the period specified in the first proviso, extend such period by such further time as it thinks necessary in order to enable the applicant to remove the objections indicated by the Board. Furnishing of information, clarification and personal representation
5. (1)  The  Board  may  require  the  applicant  to  furnish  such  further  information  or  clarification regarding matters relevant to the activity of the depository for the purpose of consideration of the application.
(2) The applicant or his authorised representative shall, if so required, appear before the Board for personal representation, in connection with the grant of certificate of registration. Consideration of application for grant of certificate of registration
6.  (1)  The  Board  shall  not  consider  an  application  under  regulation  3,  unless  the  applicant belongs  to  the  category  of  shareholders  eligible  to  hold  upto  15%  share  capital  of  the depository in terms of sub-regulation (1) and (2) of regulation 21.
(2)  The Board shall not consider an application under regulation 3, unless the applicant is a fit and proper person as described in sub-regulation 2 of regulation 23. Grant of certificate of registration
7.  After  considering  the  application  under  regulation  3,  with  reference  to  the  qualifications specified  in  regulation  6,  if  the  Board  is  satisfied  that  the  company  established  by  the applicant is eligible to act as depository, it may grant a certificate of registration in Form B of the First Schedule to the depository subject to the following, namely :— (a)  the depository shall pay the registration fee specified in Part A of the Second Schedule in the manner specified in Part  B thereof, within fifteen  days of receipt of intimation from the Board; (b)  the depository shall comply with the provisions of the Act, the Depositories Act, the bye- laws, agreements and these regulations ; (c)  the depository shall not carry on  any  activity whether  involving deployment of funds or otherwise without prior approval of the Board: Provided  that  prior  approval  of  the  Board  shall  not  be  required  in  case  of  treasury investments  if  such  investments  are  as  per  the  investment  policy  approved  by  the governing board of depository. Provided  further  that  a  depository  may  carry  out  such  activity  not  incidental  to  its activities as a depository, whether involving deployment of funds or otherwise, as may be assigned  to  the  depository  by  the  Central  Government  or  by  a  regulator  in  the  financial 4 sector,  through  the  establishment  of  Strategic  Business  Unit(s)  specific  to  each  activity with the prior approval of the Board and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by the Board, including transfer of such activity to a separate company within such time as may be specified by the Board having regard to the matters which are relevant to the efficient and orderly function of the Depository as mentioned in regulation 14. organizational  unit of a company with its own mission, objectives and business strategy that is given the responsibility to serve the particular demands of one business area with appropriate technological, financial and other segregations. (d)   the shareholding of the applicant in the depository shall be locked-in for a period of five years from the date of grant of registration by the Board. (e)    the  depository  complies  with  the  shareholding  and  governance  structure  requirements specified in these regulations; (f)   if any information previously submitted by the depository or the applicant to the Board is found to be false or misleading in any material particular, or if there is any change in such information, the depository shall forthwith inform the Board in writing; (g)  the  depository  shall redress  the  grievances  of  the  participants  and the  beneficial  owners within thirty days of the date of receipt of any complaint from a participant or a beneficial owner and keep the Board informed about the number and the nature of redressals; (h)  the depository shall make an application for commencement of business under regulation 11  within  one  year  from  the  date  of  grant  of  certificate  of  registration  under  this regulation; and (i) the  depository  shall  amend  its  bye-laws  from  time  to  time  as  may  be  directed  by  the Board; (j)  any other condition as the Board may deem fit in the interest of securities market. Payment of annual fee
8. A depository who has been granted a certificate  of registration under regulation  7, shall pay annual  fee  specified  in  Part  A  of  the  Second  Schedule  in  the  manner  specified  in  Part  B thereof. Payment of annual charge
9.  A depository shall pay to the Board, a percentage of the annual custody charges collected by it from the issuers as specified in Part A of Second Schedule in the manner specified in Part B thereof. 5 Procedure where certificate of registration is not granted
10. (1)  Where  an  application for  the  grant  of  certificate  of  registration  under  regulation  3  does not  satisfy  the  requirements  specified  in  regulation  7,  the  Board  shall  reject  the  application after giving the applicant an opportunity of being heard.
(2) The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the applicant in  writing  within  thirty  days  of  such  decision,  stating  therein  the  grounds  on  which  the application has been rejected. CHAPTER III CERTIFICATE OF COMMENCEMENT OF BUSINESS Application for grant of certificate of commencement of business
11. A  depository  which  has  been  granted  a  certificate  of  registration  under  regulation  7,  shall within one year from the date of issue of such certificate make an application to the Board for commencement of business in Form C of the First Schedule. Application to conform to the requirements
12. Any  application  in  Form  C  of  the First  Schedule  which  is  not  complete  in  all respects  and does not conform to instructions specified therein shall be rejected: Provided that before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given in writing an opportunity  to  remove  within  thirty  days  of  the  date  of  communication  in  this  regard,  the objections indicated by the Board: Provided further that the Board may, on being satisfied that it is necessary to extend the period specified in the first proviso, extend such period by such further time as it thinks necessary in order to enable the applicant to remove the objections indicated by the Board. Furnishing of information, clarification and personal representation
13. (1) The Board may require the depository to furnish such further information or clarification regarding matters relevant for the grant of certificate of commencement of business.
(2)  The  depository  or  its  authorised  representative,  if  so  required,  shall  appear  before  the Board for personal representation in connection with the grant of certificate of commencement of business. 6 Consideration of application for grant of certificate of commencement of business
14. (1) The Board shall take into account  for considering  grant  of certificate of commencement of  business,  all  matters  which  are  relevant  to  the  efficient  and  orderly  functioning  of  the depository and in particular, the following, namely, whether— (a) the depository has a net worth of not less than rupees one hundred crores; (b) the bye-laws of the depository have been approved by the Board; the  automatic  data  processing  systems  of  the  depository  have  been  protected  against unauthorised  access,  alteration,  destruction,  disclosure  or  dissemination  of  records  and data; the  network  through  which  continuous  electronic  means  of  communications  are established  between  the  depository,  participants,  issuers  and  issuers’  agents  is  secure against unauthorised entry or access; the  depository  has  established  standard  transmission  and  encryption  formats  for electronic  communications  of  data  between  the  depository,  participants,  issuers  and issuers’ agents; the  physical  or  electronic  access  to  the  premises,  facilities,  automatic  data  processing systems, data storage sites and facilities including  back up sites and facilities and to the electronic  data  communication  network  connecting  the  depository,  participants,  issuers and issuers’ agents is controlled, monitored and recorded; the depository has a detailed operations manual explaining all aspects of its functioning, including  the  interface  and  method  of  transmission  of  information  between  the depository, issuers, issuers’ agents, participants and beneficial owners; the depository has established adequate procedures and facilities to ensure that its records are  protected  against  loss  or  destruction  and  arrangements  have  been  made  for maintaining back up facilities at a location different from that of the depository; the depository has made adequate arrangements including insurance for indemnifying the beneficial  owners  for  any  loss  that  may  be  caused  to  such  beneficial  owners  by  the wrongful  act,  negligence  or  default  of  the  depository  or  its  participants  or  of  any employee of the depository or participant; and the grant of certificate of commencement of business is in the interest of investors  in the securities market. (c) (d) (e) (f) (g) (h) (i) (j)
(2)  The  Board  shall,  before  granting  a  certificate  of  commencement  of  business  under  this Chapter make a physical verification of the infrastructure facilities and systems established by the depository. 7 Networth certificate
15. (1)  Every  depository  shall  maintain  networth  as  specified  under  regulation  14  (1)  (a)  at  all times and submit an audited networth certificate from the statutory auditor on a yearly basis, by the thirtieth day of September of every year for the preceding financial year. aggregate  value  of  paid  up  equity  share  capital  and  free  reserves  (excluding  statutory  funds, benefit  funds  and  reserves  created  out  of  revaluation)  reduced  by  the  investments  in businesses, whether related or unrelated, aggregate value of accumulated losses and deferred expenditure not written off, including miscellaneous expenses not written off.
(2) Every depository shall within one month of the date of the holding of its annual general meeting, furnish to the Board a copy of its audited balance-sheet  and profit and loss account for the preceding financial year. Grant of certificate of commencement of business
16. After considering the application under regulation 14 with reference to the matters specified in  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  14  and  making  physical  verification  under  sub-regulation
(2)  of  that  regulation,  if  the  Board  is  satisfied  that  the  depository  is  eligible  to  commence business as a depository, shall grant a certificate of commencement of business in Form D of the First Schedule. Depository to abide by the Code of Conduct
17.  The depository holding a certificate of commencement of business shall, at all times, abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in the Part D of the Third Schedule. Procedure where certificate of commencement of business is not granted
18. (1) If the Board, after considering the matters specified in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 14 and making physical verification under sub-regulation (2) of that regulation, is of the opinion that  the  depository  shall  not  be  granted  a  certificate  of  commencement  of  business,  it  may either— (a)  direct the depository to conform to the matters specified in regulation 14; or (b) reject the application after giving the applicant an opportunity of being heard.
(2)  The  decision  of  the  Board  to  reject  the  application  shall  be  communicated  to  the depository in writing within thirty days of such decision, stating therein the grounds on which the application has been rejected. 8 CHAPTER IV OWNERSHIP OF DEPOSITORY Definitions
19. For the purposes of this Chapter:
(1) (2)
(3) (4) "banking company" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (c) of section 5 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949); "insurance company" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in sub-section (8) of section 2 of the Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938); "person resident in India" shall have the same meaning  as assigned to it in clause (v) of section 2 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999); "person  resident  outside  India"  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  it  in  clause (w) of section 2 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999).
(5)  “public financial institution” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in sub-section
(72) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 General Conditions
20.  (1) Save as otherwise provided in these regulations, the shareholding or voting rights of any person in a depository shall not exceed the limits specified in these regulations at any point of time.
(2)  For  determining  the  shareholding  of  any  person  in  a  depository  as  specified  in  these regulations, any instrument held, owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by  a person that entitles  him the  voting rights  or  provides  for  entitlement  to  voting  rights  or  equity  shares  or any other rights over equity shares at any future date, shall also be included: Provided that any equity or rights over equity, arising from such instruments in excess of limit of shareholding specified in this Chapter on the date of  commencement of these regulations, shall  be  reduced  to  the  specified  limit  within  a  period  of  five  years  or  such  other  period  as may be specified by the Board from time to time, from the date of such commencement. Shareholding in a Depository
21. (1) No person resident in India shall at any time, directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, acquire or hold more than five percent of the paid up equity share capital in a Depository: Provided that,— (i)  a stock exchange; (ii)  a depository; 9 (iii) a banking company; (iv)  an insurance company; and (v)  a public financial institution, may  acquire  or  hold,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  either  individually  or  together  with persons  acting  in  concert,  upto  fifteen  percent  of  the  paid  up  equity  share  capital  of  a Depository.
(2)  No  person  resident  outside  India,  directly  or  indirectly,  either  individually  or  together with  persons  acting  in  concert,  shall  acquire  or  hold  more  than  five  percent  of  the  paid  up equity share capital in a Depository: Provided further that,- (i) a foreign stock exchange; (ii) a foreign depository; (iii) a foreign banking company; (iv) a foreign insurance company; (v) a foreign commodity derivatives exchange; and (vi) a bilateral or multilateral financial institution approved by the Central Government, may  acquire  or  hold,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  either  individually  or  together  with persons  acting  in  concert,  upto  fifteen  percent  of  the  paid  up  equity  share  capital  of  a Depository. clauses (i) to (vi) shall mean persons recognised/ incorporated outside India.
(3)  Subject  to  the  limits  as  otherwise  prescribed  by  the  Central  Government  from  time  to time,  the  combined  holding  of  all  persons  resident  outside  India  in  the  paid  up  equity  share capital  of  a  depository  shall  not  exceed,  at  any  time,  forty-nine  percent  of  its  total  paid  up equity share capital. Eligibility for acquiring or holding shares in a depository
22. (1) No person shall, directly or indirectly, acquire or hold equity shares or voting rights of a  depository  unless  he  is  a fit  and  proper  person.  The  depository  shall  ensure  that  all its shareholders are fit and proper persons: Provided  that  such  a  requirement  to  ensure  that  all  its  shareholders  are  fit  and  proper persons  shall  not  be  applicable  to  a  listed  depository  for  shareholding  of  a  person  who directly  or  indirectly,  acquires  or  holds  less  than  two  percent  equity  shares  or  voting rights of such listed depository.
(2) Any person(s) who acquires equity shares or voting rights, in a depository, directly or indirectly,  either  individually  or  together  with  persons  acting  in  concert,  that  entitles  the 10 person(s) so acquiring to exercise voting rights of two percent upto five percent, shall seek approval of the Board within fifteen days of such acquisition.
(3)  Any  person  eligible  to  acquire  or  hold  more  than  five  percent  of  the  paid  up  equity share capital under sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation (2) of regulation 21 may acquire or hold more than five  percent of the paid  up equity share capital of a depository only if the person has obtained prior approval of the Board.
(4)  The  application  for  seeking  approval  in  terms  of  sub-regulation  (2)  or  sub-regulation
(3) of this regulation shall be made to the Board in Form  E of the First Schedule through the depository concerned.
(5)  The  depository  shall  verify  the  declarations/  undertakings  given  by  the  shareholders under  sub-regulation  (4)  and  forward  the  application,  along  with  its recommendation  for approval of the Board.
(6) If  approval  under  sub-regulation  (2)  is  not  granted  by  the  Board  to  any  person,  such person shall forthwith divest his entire shareholding in the depository.
(7)  Any  person  holding  two  percent  or  more  of  the  paid  up  equity  share  capital  in  a depository shall file a declaration within fifteen days from the end of every financial year to the depository that he complies with the fit and proper criteria. Monitoring of shareholding limits 22A The depository shall put in place a monitoring mechanism as specified in Part E of Second Schedule to ensure compliance with the shareholding restrictions prescribed in these regulations at all times. Requirement of fit and proper
23. (1)The depository shall ensure that all its directors and key management personnel are fit and proper persons at all times.
(2) For the purpose of determining whether an applicant, depository, its shareholder, director, key  management  personnel  or  a  participant,  is  a  ‘fit  and  proper  person’  under  these regulations,  the  criteria  specified  under  regulation  20  of  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation) (Stock exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2018, shall be applicable
(3)  If  any  question  arises  on  the  decision  of  a  depository  as  to  whether  a  person  is  fit  and proper, the Board’s decision on such question shall be final. 11 CHAPTER V GOVERNANCE OF DEPOSITORY Composition of the governing board
24. (1) The governing board of every depository shall include: (a) shareholder directors; (b) public interest directors; and, (c) managing director.
(2) Subject  to prior approval of the Board, the chairperson shall be elected by the governing board from amongst the public interest directors.
(3) The  number  of  public  interest  directors  shall  not  be  less  than  the  number  of  shareholder directors on the governing board of a Depository.
(4) The  number  of  public  interest  directors  shall not  be  less  than  the  number  of  shareholder directors to constitute the quorum for the meeting of the governing board.
(5) The voting on a resolution in the meeting of the governing board shall be valid only when the number of public interest directors that have cast their vote on such resolution is equal to or more than the number of shareholder directors who have cast their vote on such resolution.
(6) The casting vote in the meetings of the governing board of the depository shall be with the chairperson of the governing board.
(7) The managing director shall be included in the category of shareholder directors.
(8) Any employee of a depository may be appointed on the governing board in addition to the managing director, and such director shall be deemed to be a shareholder director:
(9) No depository participant or their associates and agents, irrespective of the depository of which they are members, shall be on the governing board of a depository. 12
(10) A  person  who  is  a  director  in  an  entity,  that  itself  is  a  depository participant or has    associate(s)    as    depository  participant,  he/she  will  be  deemed  to  be  a  depository participant: Provided a person shall not be deemed to be Depository Participant or their associate for the purpose of sub-regulation 10, if he/she is on the board of a Public Financial Institution or Bank which is in public sector, or which has no identifiable ultimate promoter, or the ultimate promoter   is   in   public   sector   or   has   well   diversified shareholding, and such Public Financial Institution or Bank or its associate is a Depository Participant: Provided  further  that  the  independent  directors  of  associates  of  Public  Financial Institution or Bank in public  sector, who is a Depository Participant and where the majority shareholding is that of such  Public Financial Institution  or Bank in   public   sector,  shall  not be  deemed  to  be  Depository Participant for the purpose of sub-regulation 10.
(11)  The  appointment  of  director  shall  be  subject  to  fulfillment  of  other  requirements  and satisfaction of the Board.
(12)  Depository  shall  monitor  and  ensure  the  compliance  of  sub-regulation  9  on  continuous basis, to ensure that directors appointed, on their governing board, do not get associated with Depository Participant after approval and appointment.
(13)  No  foreign  portfolio  investor  shall  have  any  representation  in  the  governing  board  of  a depository. Conditions of appointment of directors
25. (1)  The  appointment  and  re-appointment  of  all  shareholder  directors  on  the  governing board of every depository shall be with the prior approval of the Board.
(2) The public interest directors on the governing board of a depository shall be nominated by the Board.
(3)  Public  interest  directors  shall  be  nominated  for  a  term  of  three  years,  extendable  by another  term  of  three  years,  subject  to  performance  review  in  the  manner  as  may  be specified by the Board: Provided that post the expiry of term(s) at a depository, a public interest director may be nominated for a term of three years in other depository or recognized stock exchange or a recognized clearing corporation, only after a cooling-off period of one year: Provided  further  that  a  person  shall  be  nominated  as  a  public  interest  director  for  a maximum of three terms across a depository / a recognized stock exchange / a recognized clearing corporation, subject to a maximum age limit of seventy five years. 13
(4) A public  interest  director on the board of a depository  shall not  act  simultaneously  as director on the board of its subsidiary or on the board of any other depository or recognized stock  exchange  or  recognized  clearing  corporation  or  on  the  board  of  subsidiary  of  such other depository or recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation.
(5)  A public interest director on the board of a depository shall not act simultaneously as member on more than five committees of that depository.
(6)  A  public  interest  director  on  the  board  of  a  depository  shall  keep  its  governing  board apprised  of  any  conflict  of  interest,  which  may  arise  as  a  result  of  the  public  interest director providing services, either directly or indirectly, to depository participants or their associates and agents.
(7) No public interest director shall become a shareholder director unless there is a cooling- off period of three years after ceasing to be a public interest director
(8)  No  public  interest  director  on  the  governing  board  of  a  depository  shall  become  a director on the board of subsidiary of that depository unless there is a cooling-off period of three years after ceasing to be a public interest director.
(9) Public interest directors shall be remunerated only by way of payment of sitting fees as admissible to independent directors in the Companies Act, 2013.
(10) If any issue arises as to whether an assignment or position of a public interest director is in conflict with his role, the Board’s decision shall be final.
(11)  For  the  purpose  of  this  regulation,  the  procedure  for  appointment  of  directors  is prescribed under Part C of the Second Schedule. Appointment of Managing Director
26. (1)  The  appointment,  renewal  of  appointment  and  termination  of  service  of  the  managing director of a depository shall be subject to prior approval of the Board.
(2)  Every  depository  shall,  subject  to  the  guidelines  issued  by  the  Board  from  time  to  time, determine the qualification, manner of appointment, terms and conditions of appointment and other procedural formalities relating to the selection/ appointment of the managing director.
(3) The appointment of the managing director shall be for a term not exceeding five years: Provided that  post  the  completion  of  first  term as  Managing  Director,  the  depository  shall conduct the appointment process afresh: Provided further that a person may be appointed as Managing Director by the depository for a  maximum  of  two  terms  not  exceeding  five  years  each  subject  to  a  maximum  age  limit  of sixty five years.
(4) The managing director of a depository shall not— (a)  be  a  shareholder  or  an  associate  of  a  shareholder  of  a  depository  or  shareholder  of  an associate of a depository; 14 (b)  be  a  depository  participant,  or  his  associate  and  agent,  or  shareholder  of  a  depository participant or shareholder of an associate and agent of a depository participant; or (c)  hold  any  position  concurrently  in  the  subsidiary  of  a  depository  or  in  any  other  entity associated with a depository: Provided that the managing director of a depository may be appointed on the governing board, but not as managing director, of the subsidiary or associate of a depository.
(5)  The  managing  director  shall  be  liable  for  removal  or  termination  of  services  by  the governing  board  of  the  depository  with  the  prior  approval  of  the  Board  for  failure  to  give effect  to  the  directions,  guidelines  and  other  orders  issued  by  the  Board,  or  the  rules, instructions, the articles of association and bye-laws of the depository.
(6) The Board may suo motu remove or terminate the appointment of the managing director if deemed fit in the interest of securities market: Provided that  no  managing  director  shall  be  removed  unless  he  has  been  given  a  reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(7) The conditions specified under this regulation for appointment of managing director shall be applicable to a person holding position as managing director in a depository on the date of commencement of these regulations. the completion of the existing term and the prior term(s) completed by a managing director on the governing board of a depository shall also be considered while determining the eligibility. Code of Conduct for directors and key management personnel
27. (1) Every director of a depository shall abide by the Code of Conduct specified under Part-B of Third Schedule of these regulations.
(2) Every director and key management personnel of a depository shall abide by the Code of Ethics specified under Part-C of Third Schedule of these regulations.
(3)  Every  director  and  key  management  personnel  of  a  depository  shall  satisfy  the  fit  and proper person criteria at all times as per sub-regulation (2) of regulation 23.
(4) The Board may, for any failure by the directors to abide by these regulations or the Code of  Conduct  or  Code  of  Ethics  or  in  case  of  any  conflict  of  interest,  either  upon  a  reference from the depository or suo motu, take appropriate action including removal or termination of the appointment of any director, after providing him a reasonable opportunity of being heard. Compensation and tenure of key management personnel
28. (1)  A  depository  shall  constitute  a  Nomination  and  Remuneration  Committee  comprising  a majority of public interest directors and chaired by a public interest director. 15
(2) The  Nomination  and  Remuneration  Committee  shall  determine  the  compensation  of  key management personnel in terms of a compensation policy.
(3)  The  compensation  policy  shall  be  determined  by  Nomination  and  Remuneration committee  in  accordance  with  the  norms  specified  by  the  Board  under  Part  D  of  Second Schedule.
(4) The compensation payable to the managing director shall be as approved by the Board and the terms and conditions of the compensation of the managing  director shall not be changed without prior approval of the Board.
(5) The compensation given to the key management personnel shall be disclosed in the Report of the depository under section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013.
(6) The report  under sub-regulation  (5) shall comprise of ratio of compensation paid to  each key management personnel, vis-a-viz. median of compensation paid to other employees of the depository.
(7) The tenure of a key management personnel, other than a director, in a department, shall be for a fixed period, as may be decided by the Nomination and Remuneration committee. as key management personnel in a regulatory department, which shall be for a fixed period. Segregation of regulatory departments
29.  The  depository  shall  segregate  its  regulatory  departments  from  other  departments  in  the manner specified in Fourth Schedule of these regulations. Statutory committees
30. (1)  The  depository  shall  constitute  the  committees  as  per  sub-regulation  (2)  and  sub- regulation (3).
(2)  Functional committee, comprising of: (a)  Member 1[*] committee; (b) (c) 2[*] grievance redressal committee; and Nomination and remuneration committee.
(3)  Oversight committees, comprising of: (a) (b) (c) (d) Standing committee on technology; Advisory committee; Regulatory oversight committee; and Risk management committee.
(4)  The composition, quorum and functions of the committees under sub-regulation  (2) and sub-regulation (3) shall be in the manner as specified by the Board from time to time. Disclosure and corporate governance norms
31. (1)  The  disclosure  requirements  and  corporate  governance  norms  as  specified  for  listed companies shall mutatis mutandis apply to a depository.
(2)  The  governing  board  of  a  depository  shall  confirm  compliance  of  sub-regulation  (1)  in writing on half yearly basis to the Board.
(3) Depository shall disclose resources committed towards strengthening regulatory functions and  towards  ensuring  compliance  with  regulatory  requirements  applicable  to  the  depository, backed by an activity based accounting in the report under section 134 of the Companies Act,
2013. (4)  The  fees  and  charges  levied  by  a  depository  shall  be  placed  for  review  before  the Oversight Committee of such depository. CHAPTER VI REGISTRATION OF PARTICIPANT Application for grant of certificate of registration
32.  (1) An application for the grant of a certificate of registration as a participant shall be made to  the  Board  in  Form  F  of  the  First  Schedule,  through  the  depository  in  which the  applicant proposes  to  act  as  a  participant,  shall  be  accompanied  by  the  fee  specified  in  Part  A  of  the Second Schedule and be paid in the manner specified in Part B thereof.
(2) The depository shall forward to the Board the application in Form F of the First Schedule as  early  as  possible,  but  not  later  than  thirty  days  along  with  its  recommendations  and certifying  that  the  participant  complies  with  the  eligibility  criteria  including  adequate infrastructure as provided for in these regulations and the bye-laws of the depository. Application to conform to the requirements
33.  An  application  in  Form  F  of  the  First  Schedule,  which  is  not  complete  in  all  respects  and does not conform to the instructions specified therein, shall be rejected: Provided that before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given in writing an opportunity  to  remove  within  thirty  days  of  the  date  of  communication  in  this  regard,  the objections indicated by the Board: 17 Provided further that the Board may, on being satisfied that it is necessary to extend the period specified in the first proviso, extend such period by such further time as it thinks necessary in order to enable the applicant to remove the objections indicated by the Board. Furnishing information, clarification, and personal representation
34.  (1)  The  Board  may  require  the  applicant,  or  the depository  to  which  the  applicant  is  to  be admitted  as  a  participant,  to  furnish  such  further  information  or  clarification  as  may  be considered necessary for the grant of a certificate of registration to the applicant.
(2) The applicant or his authorised representative shall, if so required, appear before the Board for personal representation in connection with the grant of a certificate of registration. Consideration of application for grant of certificate of registration
35.  For  the  purpose  of  grant  of  certificate  of  registration,  the  Board  shall  take  into  account  all matters  which  are  relevant  to  or  relating  to  the  efficient  and  orderly  functioning  of  a participant and in particular, whether the applicant complies with the following requirements, namely :— (a) the applicant belongs to one of the following categories,— (i)  a public financial institution as defined in section 2(72) of the Companies Act, 2013; (ii)  a  bank  included  for  the  time  being  in  the  Second  Schedule  to  the  Reserve  Bank  of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934); (iii)  a foreign bank operating in India with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India; (iv)  a State Financial Corporation established under the provisions of section 3 of the State Financial Corporations Act, 1951 (63 of 1951); (v)  an  institution  engaged  in  providing  financial  services,  promoted  by  any  of  the institutions mentioned in sub-clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv), jointly or severally; (vi)  a custodian of securities who has been granted a certificate of registration by the Board under sub-section (1A) of section 12 of the Act; (vii) a clearing corporation or a clearing house of a stock exchange; (viii)  a  stock  broker  who  has  been  granted  a  certificate  of  registration  by  the  Board  under sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Act : Provided  that  the  stock  broker  shall  have  a  minimum  net  worth  of rupees  fifty  lakhs and  the  aggregate  value  of  portfolio  of  securities  of  the  beneficial  owners  held  in dematerialised form in a depository through him, shall not exceed hundred times of the net worth of the stock broker: 18 Provided further that if the stock broker seeks to act as a participant in more than one depository, he shall comply with the criteria specified in the first proviso separately for each such depository: Provided  also  that  where  the  stock  broker  has  a  minimum  net  worth  of  rupees  ten crore,  the  limits  on  the  aggregate  value  of  the  portfolio  of  securities  of  the  beneficial owners  held  in  dematerialized  form  in  a  depository  through  him  shall  not  be applicable; (ix)  a non-banking finance company, having a net worth of not less than rupees fifty lakhs: Provided that such company shall act  as a participant  only  on behalf of itself and not on behalf of any other person: Provided  further  that  a  non-banking  finance  company  may  act  as  a  participant  on behalf of any other person, if it has a net worth of  rupees fifty crore in addition to the net worth specified by any other authority; (x)   a registrar to an issue or share transfer agent who has a minimum net worth of rupees ten  crores  and  who  has  been  granted  a  certificate  of  registration  by  the  Board  under sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Act; (b) the applicant is eligible to be admitted as a participant of the depository  through which it has made the application to the Board; (c)  the applicant has adequate infrastructure, systems, safeguards and trained staff to carry on activity as a participant; (d)  the applicant is a fit and proper person; and (e)  the  grant  of  certificate  of  registration  is  in  the  interests  of  investors  in  the  securities market. Grant of certificate of registration
36.  (1)  After  considering  the  application  under  regulation  32,  with  reference  to  the  matters specified  in  regulation  35,  if  the  Board  is  satisfied  that  the  applicant  is  eligible  for  grant  of certificate of registration, grant a certificate in Form G of the First Schedule.
(2) The grant of certificate of registration in Form  G of the First Schedule shall be subject to the following, namely:— (a) the participant shall pay the registration fee specified in Part A of the Second Schedule in the manner specified in Part B thereof, within fifteen days of the receipt of intimation from the Board; (b) the  participant  shall  comply  with  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  Depositories  Act,  the  bye- laws, agreements and these regulations; (c)  the  depository  through  which  an  application  for  certificate  of  registration  has  been forwarded holds a certificate of commencement of business under regulation 16; (d)  where  the  participant  proposes  change  in  control,  it  shall  obtain  prior  approval  of  the Board for continuing to act as such after the change; 19 (e)  if any information previously submitted by the participant to the Board is found to be false or misleading  in  any material particular, or if there is any change in  such information, the participant shall forthwith inform the Board in writing ; (f)  the participant shall redress the grievances of beneficial  owners within thirty  days of the date of the receipt of the complaint and keep the depository informed about the number and the nature of redressals; and (g) the  participant  shall  pay  annual  fees  specified  in  Part  A  of  the  Second  Schedule  in  the manner specified in Part B thereof.
(3)  The  certificate  of  registration  granted  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  valid  unless  it  is suspended or cancelled by the Board.
(4) The participant who has already been granted certificate of registration by the Board, prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Conditions of Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 shall be deemed to have been granted a certificate of registration, in terms of sub-regulation (1).
(5) The participant, to keep the registration in force, shall pay registration fee as specified in Part A  of  the  Second  Schedule for  every five  years  from  the  sixth  year  of  the  date  of  grant  of certificate of registration or of the date of grant  of certificate of initial registration granted prior  to  the  commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  in Conditions  of  Registration  of  Certain  Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016,  as the case may be.
(6) The fee specified in sub-regulation (5) shall be paid three months prior to the expiry of the block for which the fee has been paid.
(7) The participant shall immediately intimate the Board, details of changes that have taken place in the information that was submitted, while seeking registration. Participants to abide by code of conduct
37.  The participant holding a certificate of registration shall, at all times, abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in Part A of Third Schedule. Acting as participant in more than one depository
38.  (1) A participant who has been granted a certificate of registration may act as a participant of another depository without obtaining separate certificate of registration subject to approval by such other depository.
(2) Such a participant who desires to act as a participant of another depository shall apply to such other depository for approval in the manner as specified by the Board.
(3)  On  receipt  of  an  application  under  sub-regulation  (2),  the  depository  shall,  on  being satisfied  with  the  compliance  of  the  provisions  of  these  regulations  and  other  relevant eligibility requirements specified by the Board, grant approval to act as its participant subject 20 to payment of registration fees specified in Part A of Second Schedule in the manner specified in  Part  B thereof, by the participant within  fifteen days of the receipt of intimation from the depository.
(4) The depository shall inform the Board about the approval granted under sub-regulation
(5)  A  participant  who  has  been  granted  approval  under  sub-regulation  (3)  shall  pay  annual fees  specified  in  Part  A  of  Second  Schedule  in  the  manner  specified  in  Part  B  thereof, separately for each depository.
(6) To keep the registration in force, a participant who has been granted approval under sub- regulation (3) shall pay registration fees specified in Part A of Second Schedule in the manner specified  in  Part  B  thereof,  for  every  five  years  from  the  sixth  year  of  the  date  of  grant  of approval by the depository. Procedure where certificate of registration is not granted
39. (1) Where an application for the grant of certificate of registration under regulation  32 does not  satisfy the requirements specified in  regulation  35, the Board shall reject  the  application after giving the applicant an opportunity of being heard.
(2) The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the applicant in  writing  within  thirty  days  of  such  decision,  stating  therein  the  grounds  on  which  the application has been rejected. CHAPTER VII RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF DEPOSITORIES, PARTICIPANTS, ISSUERS, MANNER OF SURRENDER OF CERTIFICATE OF SECURITY AND CREATION OF PLEDGE OR HYPOTHECATION Rights and obligations of depositories, etc.
40.  The  depositories,  participants,  issuers,  and  issuers’  agents,  in  addition  to  the  rights  and obligations  laid  down  in  the  Depositories  Act  and  the  bye-laws  shall  have  the  rights  and obligations arising from the agreements entered into by them. Depository to declare specific securities eligible
41.  Every  depository  shall,  in  its  bye-laws,  state  the  specific  securities  which  are  eligible  for being held in dematerialised form in the depository. Security eligible for dematerialisation 21
42.  The  following  securities  shall  be  eligible  for  being  held  in  dematerialised  form  in  a depository :— (a)  shares,  scrips,  stocks,  bonds,  debentures,  debenture  stock  ,  Indian  Depository  Receipts  or other marketable securities of a like nature in or of any incorporated company or other body corporate; (b)  units of mutual funds, rights under collective investment schemes and venture capital funds, commercial  paper,  certificates  of  deposit,  securitised  debt,  money  market  instruments, Government securities and unlisted securities shall also be similarly eligible for being held in dematerialised form in a depository; (c)   any  other  security  as  may  be  specified  by  the  Board  from  time  to  time,  by  way  of  a notification  in  the  Official  Gazette  and  subject  to  such  conditions  as  it  may  deem  fit  to impose. Agreement between depository and issuer
43.  (1) Either on the issuer or on the investor exercising  an option to hold his securities with  a depository in dematerialised form, the issuer shall enter into an agreement with the depository to enable the investor to dematerialise the securities: Provided that no agreement shall be required to be entered into where the depository itself is an issuer of securities: Provided further that no such agreement shall be required to be entered into where the State or the Central Government is the issuer of Government securities.
(2) Where the issuer has appointed a Registrar to the Issue or Share Transfer Agent, who has been granted certificate of registration by the Board under sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Act, the depository shall enter into a tripartite  agreement with the issuer and the Registrar to the  Issue  or  Share  Transfer  Agent,  as  the  case  may  be,  in  respect  of  the  securities  to  be declared by the depository as eligible to be held in dematerialised form. Systems and procedures
44. Every depository shall have systems and procedures which will enable it to co-ordinate with the issuer or its agent, and the participants, to reconcile the records of ownership of securities with the issuer or its agent, as the case may be, and with participants, on a daily basis. Connectivity
45. Every  depository  shall  maintain  continuous  electronic  means  of  communication  with  all  its participants,  issuers  or  issuers’  agents,  as  the  case  may  be,  clearing  houses  and  clearing corporations of the stock exchanges and with other depositories. Mechanism for investor protection 22
46. The  depository  shall  satisfy  the  Board  that  it  has  a  mechanism  in  place  to  ensure  that  the interests  of  the  persons  buying  and  selling  securities  held  in  the  depository  are  adequately protected. Withdrawal by participant
47. Every  depository  shall  allow  any  participant  to  withdraw,  or  transfer  its  account,  if  the request for such withdrawal or transfer is in accordance with conditions stipulated therefor in the bye-laws of the depository. Internal monitoring, review and evaluation of systems and controls
48. Every depository shall have adequate mechanisms for the purposes of reviewing, monitoring and evaluating the depository’s controls systems, procedures and safeguards. External monitoring, review and evaluation of systems and controls
49. Every  depository  shall  cause  an  inspection  of  its  controls,  systems,  procedures  and safeguards to be carried out annually and forward a copy of the report to the Board. Business Continuity Plan
50. A depository shall have adequate Business Continuity Plan for data and electronic records to prevent, prepare for, and recover from any disaster. Wind-down Plan.
51. Every depository shall devise and maintain a wind-down plan in accordance with guidelines specified by the Board. action  employed,  for  transfer  of  the  beneficial  owner  accounts  and  other  two  operational powers of the depository to an alternative institution that would take over the operations of the depository in scenarios such as erosion of net-worth of the depository or its insolvency or its inability to provide critical depository operations or services. Insurance against risks
52. Every depository shall take adequate measures including insurance to protect the interests of the  beneficial  owners  against  risks  likely  to  be  incurred  on  account  of  its  activities  as  a depository. 23 Manner of keeping records
53. Where  records  are  kept  electronically  by  the  depository, it  shall  ensure  that  the  integrity  of the  automatic  data  processing  systems  is  maintained  at  all  times  and  take  all  precautions necessary to ensure that the records are not lost, destroyed or tampered with and in the event of  loss  or  destruction,  ensure  that  sufficient  back  up  of  records  is  available  at  all  times  at  a different place. Records to be maintained.
54.  (1) Every depository shall maintain the following records and documents, namely :— (a)  records of securities dematerialised and rematerialised; (b)  the names of the transferor, transferee, and the dates of transfer of securities; (c)  a register and an index of beneficial owners; (d)   details of the holding of the securities of beneficial owners as at the end of each day; (e)  records  of  instructions  received  from  and  sent  to  participants,  issuers,  issuers’  agents  and beneficial owners; (f)  records  of  approval,  notice,  entry  and  cancellation  of  pledge  or  hypothecation,  as  the  case may be; (g)  details of participants; (h)  details of securities declared to be eligible for dematerialisation in the depository; and (i)  such  other  records  as  may  be  specified  by  the  Board  for  carrying  on  the  activities  as  a depository.
(2)  Every  depository  shall  intimate  the  Board  the  place  where  the  records  and  documents  are maintained.
(3)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  any  other  law  the  depository  shall  preserve  records  and documents for a minimum period of eight years. Co-operation with other entities
55.  Every depository shall extend all such co-operation to the beneficial owners, issuers, issuers’ agents, custodians of securities, other depositories and clearing  organizations as is necessary for the effective, prompt and  accurate clearance and settlement  of securities transactions and conduct of business. Consolidated account statement
56. In order to enable generation of a consolidated account statement for the use of a beneficial owner  in  respect  of  all  demat  assets  held  by  him,  the  depository  shall  enter  into  necessary agreements for sharing of such information. 24 Prohibition of assignment
57. No  depository  shall  assign  or  delegate  to  any  other  person  its  functions  as  a  depository, without the prior approval of the Board. Agreement by participant
58. Every  participant  shall  enter  into  an  agreement  with  a  beneficial  owner  before  acting  as  a participant on his behalf, in a manner specified by the depository in its bye-laws. Separate accounts
59.  (1)  Separate  accounts  shall  be  opened  by  every  participant  in  the  name  of  each  of  the beneficial owners and the securities of each beneficial owner shall be segregated, and shall not be  mixed  up  with  the  securities  of  other  beneficial  owners  or  with  the  participant’s  own securities.
(2)  A  participant  shall  register  the  transfer  of  securities  to  or  from  a  beneficial  owner’s account  only  on  receipt  of  instructions  from  the beneficial  owner  and  thereafter  confirm  the same to the beneficial owner in a manner as specified by the depository in its bye-laws.
(3) Every entry in the beneficial owner’s account shall be supported by electronic instructions or  any  other mode  of instruction  received  from  the  beneficial  owner  in  accordance  with  the agreement with the beneficial owner. Statement of accounts
60.  Every  participant  shall  provide  statements  of  account  to  the  beneficial  owner  in  such  form and in such manner and at such time as provided in the agreement with the beneficial owner. Transfer or withdrawal by beneficial owner
61.  Every participant shall allow a beneficial owner to withdraw or transfer from his account in such manner as specified in the agreement with the beneficial owner. Connectivity
62.  Every  participant  shall  maintain  continuous  electronic  means  of  communication  with  each depository in which it is a participant. Monitoring, reviewing and evaluating internal systems and controls
63.  Every participant shall have adequate mechanism  for the purpose of reviewing, monitoring and evaluating the participant’s internal accounting controls and systems. 25 Reconciliation
64.  Every participant shall reconcile his records with every depository in which it is a participant on a daily basis. Returns
65.  Every participant shall submit periodic returns to the Board and to every depository in which it is a participant in the format specified by the Board or the bye-laws of the depository, as the case may be. Record of services
66.  (1) Every participant shall maintain the following records and documents, namely :— (a) records of all the transactions entered into with a depository and with a beneficial owner; (b)  details  of  securities  dematerialised,  rematerialised  on  behalf  of  beneficial  owners  with whom it has entered into an agreement; (c) records  of  instructions  received  from  beneficial  owners  and  statements  of  account provided to beneficial owners; and (d)  records  of  approval,  notice,  entry  and  cancellation  of  pledge  or  hypothecation,  as  the case may be.
(2) Every participant shall make available for the inspection of the depository in which it is a participant all records referred to in sub-regulation (1).
(3)  Every  participant  shall  allow  persons  authorised  by  the  depository  in  which  it  is  a participant to enter its premises during normal office hours and inspect its records.
(4) Every participant shall intimate the Board the place where the records and documents are maintained.
(5)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  any  other  law,  the  participant  shall  preserve  records  and documents for a minimum period of eight years. Manner of keeping records
67. Where records are kept electronically by the participant it shall ensure that the integrity of the data processing systems is maintained at all times and take all precautions necessary to ensure that the records are not lost, destroyed or tampered with and in the event of loss or destruction, ensure that sufficient back up of records is available at all times at a different place. Records to be maintained depository-wise 26
68. If a participant enters into an agreement with more than one depository, it shall maintain the records specified in regulation 66 separately in respect of each depository. Prohibition of assignment
69. No  participant  shall  assign  or  delegate  its  functions  as  participant  to  any  other  person, without the prior approval of the depository. Agreement by issuer
70.  Every  issuer  whose  securities  have  been  declared  as  eligible  to  be  held  in  dematerialised form in a depository shall enter into an agreement with the depository in accordance with the provisions of regulation 43: Provided that no agreement shall be required to be entered into in case,— (i)  the depository is the issuer of securities; or (ii) the State or the Central Government is the issuer of Government securities. Manner of handling share registry work
71.  All matters relating to transfer of securities, maintenance of records of holders of securities, handling  of  physical  securities  and  establishing  connectivity  with  the  depositories  shall  be handled  and  maintained  at  a  single  point  i.e.  either  in-house  by  the  issuer  or  by  a  Share Transfer Agent registered with the Board. Redressal of investor grievances
72.  Every  issuer  or  its  agent  or  any  person  who  is  registered  as  an  intermediary  under  this regulation, shall redress the grievances of beneficial owners within thirty days of the date of receipt  of  the  complaint  and  keep  the  depository  informed  about  the  number  and  nature  of grievances redressed by it and the number of grievances pending before it. Investor Protection Fund
73. (1)  Every  depository  shall  establish  and  maintain  an  Investor  Protection  Fund  for  the protection of interest of beneficial owners: Provided that  this  Fund  shall  not  be  used  by  the depository  for  the  purpose  of  indemnifying the beneficial owner under section 16 of the Depositories Act, 1996.
(2) Every depository shall credit five  percent or such percentage as may be specified by the Board, of its profits from depository operations every year to the Investor Protection Fund.
(3) The contribution to and utilization of the Investor Protection Fund shall be in accordance with the norms specified by the Board. 27 Manner of surrender of certificate of security
74.  (1) Any beneficial owner, who has entered into an agreement with a participant, shall inform the  participant  of the  details  of  the  certificate  of security  which  is  to  be  dematerialised,  and shall surrender such certificate to the participant : Provided that where a beneficial  owner has appointed a custodian of securities, then he may surrender the certificates of security to the participant through his custodian of securities.
(2)  The  participant  shall,  on  receipt  of  information  under  sub-regulation  (1),  forward  such details of the certificate of security to the depository and shall confirm to the depository that an agreement has been entered into between the participant and the beneficial owner.
(3)  The  participant  shall  maintain  records  indicating  the  names  of  beneficial  owners  of  the securities surrendered, the number of securities and other details of the certificate of security received.
(4) The participant shall, within seven days of the receipt of certificate of security referred to in sub-regulation (1) furnish to the issuer details specified in sub-regulation (2) along with the certificate of security.
(5) Within fifteen days of receipt of the certificate of security from the participant  the issuer shall confirm to the depository that securities comprised in the said certificate have been listed on the stock exchange or exchanges where the earlier issued securities are listed and shall also after due verification immediately mutilate and cancel the certificate of security and substitute in its record the name of the depository as the registered owner and shall send a certificate to this effect to the depository and to every stock exchange where the security is listed: Provided that in case of unlisted companies the condition of listing on all the stock exchanges where earlier issued shares are listed, shall not be applicable.
(6)  Immediately  upon  receipt  of  information  from  the  issuer  under  sub-regulation  (5),  the depository shall enter in its records the name of the person who has surrendered the certificate of security as the beneficial  owner, as well as the name of the participant from whom it has received intimation under sub-regulation (2), and shall send an intimation of the same to the participant.
(7)  The  issuer  shall  maintain  a  record  of  certificates  of  securities  which  have  been dematerialised. Reconciliation
75.  The  issuer  or  its  agent  shall  reconcile  the  records  of  dematerialised  securities  with  all  the securities issued by the issuer, on a daily basis: Provided  that  where  the  State  or  the  Central  Government  is  the  issuer  of  Government securities,  the  depository  shall,  on  a  daily  basis,  reconcile  the  records  of  the  dematerialised securities. 28 Audit
76.  (1)  Every issuer shall submit audit report on a quarterly  basis, starting from September 30, 2003,  to  the  concerned  stock  exchanges  audited  by  a  qualified  Chartered  Accountant  or  a practicing  Company  Secretary,  for  the  purposes  of  reconciliation  of  the  total  issued  capital, listed capital and capital held by depositories in dematerialized form, the details of changes in share capital  during  the quarter and the in-principle approval  obtained by the issuer from  all the stock exchanges where it is listed in respect of such further issued capital.
(2) The audit report under sub-regulation (1) shall also give the updated status of the register of members of the issuer and confirm that securities have been dematerialized as per requests within  twenty  one  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  requests  by  the  issuer  and  where  the dematerialization  has  not  been  effected  within  the  said  stipulated  period,  the  report  shall disclose the reasons for such delay.
(3)  The  issuer  shall  immediately  bring  to  the  notice  of  the  depositories  and  the  stock exchanges, any difference observed in its issued, listed, and the capital held by depositories in dematerialised form. Connectivity
77.  Every issuer or its agent shall establish continuous electronic means of communication with the depository with which it has entered into an agreement. Information
78.  Every  issuer  whose  securities  have  been  declared  as  eligible  for  dematerialisation  in  a depository shall give information to the depository about book closures, record dates, dates for the  payment  of  interest  or  dividend,  dates  for  annual  general  meetings  and  other  meetings, dates  for  redemption  of  debentures,  dates  for  conversion  of  debentures  and  warrants,  call money dates and such other information at the time and in the manner as may be specified by the depository in its bye-laws or agreement: Provided that no such information would be required to be given to the depository where the State or the Central Government is the issuer of Government securities. Manner of creating pledge or hypothecation
79.  (1) If a beneficial owner intends to create a pledge on a security owned by him he shall make an application to the depository through the participant who has his account in respect of such securities.
(2) The  participant  after  satisfaction  that the  securities  are  available  for  pledge  shall  make  a note in its records of the notice of pledge and forward the application to the depository. 29
(3) Within fifteen days of receipt of the application, the depository shall after concurrence of the pledgee through its participant, create and record the pledge and send an intimation of the same to the participants of the pledger and the pledgee.
(4) On receipt of the intimation under sub-regulation  (3) the participants of both  the pledger and the pledgee shall inform the pledger and the pledgee respectively of the entry of creation of the pledge.
(5)  If  the  depository  does  not  create  the  pledge,  it  shall  send  along  with  the  reasons  an intimation to the participants of the pledger and the pledgee.
(6) The entry of pledge made under sub-regulation (3) may be cancelled by the depository if pledger or the pledgee makes an application to the depository through its participant: Provided  that  no  entry  of  pledge  shall  be  cancelled  by  the  depository  without  prior concurrence of the pledgee.
(7) The depository on the cancellation of the entry of pledge shall inform the participant of the pledger.
(8) Subject to the provisions of the pledge document, the pledgee may invoke the pledge and on  such  invocation,  the  depository  shall  register  the  pledgee  as  beneficial  owner  of  such securities and amend its records accordingly.
(9)  After  amending  its  records  under  sub-regulation  (8)  the  depository  shall  immediately inform  the participants of the pledger and pledgee of the change who in  turn shall make the necessary changes in their records and inform the pledger and pledgee respectively.
(10)  If  a  beneficial  owner  intends  to  create  a  hypothecation  on  a  security  owned  by  him  he may do so in accordance with the provisions of sub-regulations (1) to (9).
(11) The provisions of sub-regulations (1) to (9) shall mutatis mutandis apply in such cases of hypothecation: Provided  that  the  depository  before  registering  the  hypothecatee  as  a  beneficial  owner  shall obtain the prior concurrence of the hypothecator.
(12) No transfer of security in respect of which a notice or entry of pledge or hypothecation is in  force  shall  be  effected  by  a  participant  without  the  concurrence  of  the  pledgee  or  the hypothecatee, as the case may be. for margin and / or settlement obligations of the client or such other purposes as specified by the Board from time to time.] Investment advice
80.  (1)  A  depository  or  a  participant  or  any  of  their  employees  shall  not  render,  directly  or indirectly, any investment advice about any security in the publicly accessible media, whether real-time or non-real-time, unless a disclosure of his interest  including long or short position in the said security has been made, while rendering such advice.
(2) In case an employee of the depository or the participant is rendering such advice, he shall also  disclose  the  interest  of  his  dependent  family members  and the  employer including  their long or short position in the said security, while rendering such advice. Appointment of compliance officer
81.  A  depository  and  a  participant  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be  responsible for  monitoring  the  compliance  of  the  Act,  rules  and  regulations,  notifications,  guidelines, instructions, etc., issued thereunder and for redressal of investors’ grievances.
(2) The compliance officer shall immediately and independently report to the Board any non- compliance observed by him. Equal, fair and transparent access
82.  A  depository  shall  ensure  equal,  unrestricted,  transparent  and  fair  access  to  all  persons without any bias towards its associates and related entities. CHAPTER VIII LISTING OF SECURITIES Listing
83.  (1) Subject to the provisions of applicable laws in force, a depository may apply for listing of its securities on a recognised stock exchange if,─ (a)  it  is  compliant  with  the  provisions  of  these  regulations  particularly  those  relating  to ownership and governance; (b)  it  has  completed  three  years  of  continuous  depository  operations  immediately preceding the date of application of listing; and (c) it has obtained approval of the Board.
(2) The Board may specify such conditions as it may deem fit in the interest of the securities market including those in relation to transfer of shares held by any person.
(3)  A  depository  or  its  associates  shall  not  list  its  securities  on  a recognized  stock  exchange that is an associate of the depository. CHAPTER IX INSPECTION 31 Board’s right to inspect
84.  The Board may appoint one or more persons as inspecting officer to undertake inspection of the  books  of  account,  records,  documents  and  infrastructure,  systems  and  procedures,  or  to investigate the affairs of a depository, a participant, a beneficial  owner an issuer or its agent for any of the following purposes, namely:— (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) to  ensure  that  the  books  of  account  are  being  maintained  by  the  depository,  participant, issuer or its agent in the manner specified in these regulations; to  look  into the complaints received from  the depositories, participants, issuers, issuers’ agents, beneficial owners or any other person; to  ascertain  whether  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  the  Depositories  Act,  the  bye-laws, agreements and these regulations are being complied with by the depository, participant, beneficial owner, issuer or its agent; to  ascertain  whether  the  systems,  procedures  and  safeguards  being  followed  by  a depository, participant, beneficial owner, issuer or its agent are adequate; to suo motu ensure that the affairs of a depository, participant, beneficial owner, issuer or its agent, are being conducted in a manner which are in the interest of the investors or the securities market. Notice before inspection and investigation.
85.  (1) Before ordering an inspection or investigation under regulation  84, the Board shall give not  less  than  ten  days  notice  to  the  depository,  participant,  beneficial  owner,  issuer  or  its agent, as the case may be.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may, by an order in writing direct that such inspection be taken up without such notice.
(3)  During  the  course  of  an  inspection  or  investigation,  the  depository,  a  participant,  a beneficial owner, an issuer or its agent against whom the inspection or investigation is being carried out shall be bound to discharge his obligation as provided in regulation 86. Obligations on inspection by the Board
86.  (1)  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  depository,  a  participant,  a  beneficial  owner,  an  issuer  or  its agent  whose  affairs  are  being  inspected  or  investigated,  and  of  every  director,  officer  and employee  thereof,  to  produce  to  the  inspecting  officer  such  books,  securities,  accounts, records  and  other  documents  in  its  custody  or  control  and  furnish  him  with  such  statements and information relating to his activities as a depository, a participant, a beneficial owner, an issuer or its agent, as the inspecting officer may require, within such reasonable period as the inspecting officer may specify.
(2)  The  depository,  a  participant,  a  beneficial  owner,  an  issuer  or  its  agent  also  allow  the inspecting officer to have reasonable access to the premises occupied by him or by any other 32 person  on  his  behalf  and  also  extend  reasonable  facility  for  examining  any  books,  records, documents  and  computer  data  in  the  possession  of  the  depository,  a  participant,  a  beneficial owner,  an  issuer  or  its  agent  or  such  other  person  and  also  provide  copies  of  documents  or other materials which, in the opinion of the inspecting officer are relevant for the purposes of the inspection.
(3)  The  inspecting  officer,  in  the  course  of  inspection  or  investigation,  shall  be  entitled  to examine or to record the statements of any director, officer or employee of the depository, a participant, a beneficial owner, an issuer or its agent.
(4) It shall be the duty of every director, officer or employee of the depository, a participant, a beneficial  owner,  an  issuer  or  its  agent  to  give  to  the  inspecting  officer  all  assistance  in connection with the inspection, which the inspecting officer may reasonably require. Submission of report to the Board
87.  The  inspecting  officer  shall,  as  soon  as  possible,  on  completion  of  the  inspection  or investigation as the case may be, submit a report to the Board: Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he may submit interim reports. Action on inspection or investigation report
88.  The  Board  or  the  Chairman  shall  after  consideration  of  inspection  or  investigation  report take  such  action  as  the  Board  or  Chairman  may  deem  fit  and  appropriate  including  action under Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations,
2008. Appointment of Auditor
89.  The Board shall have the power to appoint an auditor to inspect or investigate, into the books of  account,  records,  documents,  infrastructures,  systems  and  procedures  or  affairs  of  a depository, a participant, a beneficial owner, an issuer or its agent : Provided  that  the  auditor  so  appointed  shall  have  the  same  powers  of  the  inspecting  or investigating officer as stated in  regulations  84 and 85, and the obligation of the depository, participant,  beneficial  owner,  issuer  or  its  agent  and  their  respective  directors,  officers  and employees, as the case may be, as stated in regulation 86, shall be applicable to the inspection or investigation under this regulation. Board to recover the expenses
90. The  Board  shall  be  entitled  to  recover  from  the  depository,  participant,  beneficial  owner, issuer  or  its  agent,  as  the  case  may  be,  such  expenses  including  fees  paid  to  the  auditors  as may  be  incurred  by  it  for  the  purposes  of  inspecting  or  investigating  the  books  of  account, records,  documents,  infrastructures,  system  and  procedures  of  the  depository,  participant, beneficial owner, issuer or its agent, as the case may be. 33 Application of Chapter
91. Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be applicable to the State or the Central Government where it is the issuer of the Government securities. CHAPTER X PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT Liability for action in case of default
92.  Without prejudice to the power of the Board to take action, under the provisions of the Act and the Depositories Act, if a depository or a participant:- (a)  contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  the  Depositories  Act,  the  bye-laws, agreements and these regulations; (b)  fails  to  furnish  any  information  relating  to  its  activity  as  a  depository  or  participant  as required under these regulations; (c)  does not furnish the information called for by the Board under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 18 of the Depositories Act or furnishes information which is false or misleading in any material particular; (d)  does not co-operate in any inspection or investigation or enquiry conducted by the Board; (e)  fails to comply with any direction of the Board issued under section 18 of the Depositories Act; (f)  fails to pay the annual fee referred to in regulation 8, shall  be  dealt  with  in  the  manner  provided  under  Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008. Liability for action in case of default by issuer or its agent
93.  (1) If an issuer or its agent - (a)  contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of  the  Depositories  Act, the  byelaws,  agreements, these regulations and directions issued thereunder; (b) fails to furnish any information  relating  to its activity as an issuer as required under these regulations; (c)  does  not  furnish  the  information  called  for  by  the  Board  under  clause  (a)  of  sub- section (1) of section 18 of the Depositories Act or furnishes information which is false or misleading in any material particular; (d)  does  not  co-operate  in  any  inspection  or  investigation  or  enquiry  conducted  by  the Board; (e)  fails  to  comply  with  any  direction  of  the  Board  issued  under  section  18  of  the Depositories Act, 34 the Board may, without prejudice to any other action which it may take under the Act, take any action against such issuer or its agent under the Depositories Act.
(2) The depository shall conduct inspection of the records of the issuers or agents, as the case may  be  to  ensure  that  the  records  of  dematerialised  securities  are  reconciled  with  all  the securities  issued  by  the  issuer  and  submit  its  report  to  the  Board  if  there  is  failure  by  the issuers or agents in such reconciliation of records. 4[CHAPTER X-A POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
93A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of  the  provisions  of  these  regulations  for  a  period  as  may  be  specified  but  not  exceeding twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)  Any  exemption  granted  by  the  Board  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  subject  to  the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board.] CHAPTER XI MISCELLANEOUS Power to call for information
94.  The Board may from  time to time call for any information, documents or records from  the depository or its governing board or any shareholder or applicant thereof and from depository participant. Directions by the Board
95.  Without  prejudice  to  exercise  of  its  powers  under  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  Depositories Act, 1996 and rules and regulations made thereunder, the Board may, either suo motu or on 35 receipt of any information or during pendency of any inspection, inquiry or investigation or on completion thereof, in the interest of public or trade or investors or the securities market, issue such directions as it deems fit, including but not limited to any or all of the following:─ (a)  directing  a  person  holding  equity  shares  or  rights  over  equity  shares  in  a  depository  in contravention of these regulations to divest his holding, in such manner as may be specified in the direction; (b)  directing  transfer  of  any  proceeds  or  securities  to  the  Investor  Protection  Fund  of  a depository; (c) debarring  any depository, any shareholder of such depository, or any associate and agent of  such  shareholder,  or  any  transferee  of  shares  from  such  shareholder,  or  applicant(s), director(s) and key management personnel(s) of the depository from  accessing  the securities market and/or dealing in securities for such period as may be determined by the Board. Power to remove difficulties
96. In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  interpretation  or  application  of  the  provisions  of these regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue directions through guidance notes or circulars. Power to specify procedures, etc. and issue clarifications
97. For  the  purposes  of  implementation  of  these  regulations  and  matters  incidental  thereto,  the Board may specify norms, procedures, processes, manners or guidelines as specified in these regulations, by way of circulars. Repeal and savings
98.  (1) On and from the commencement of these regulations, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996, shall stand repealed.
(2)  Notwithstanding  such  repeal,  anything  done  or  any  action  taken  or  purported  to  have been taken or contemplated under the repealed regulations before the commencement of these  regulations  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  done  or  taken  or  commenced  or contemplated under the corresponding provisions of these regulations.
3. An application for registration of a mutual fund shall be made to the Board in Form A by the sponsor. Application fee to accompany the application
4.  Every  application  for  registration  under  regulation  3  shall  be  accompanied  by  non- refundable application fee as specified in the Second Schedule. Application to conform to the requirements
5. An application, which is not complete in all respects shall be liable to be rejected: Provided  that,  before  rejecting  any  such  application,  the  applicant  shall  be  given  an opportunity  to  complete  such  formalities  within  such  time  as  may  be  specified  by  the Board. Furnishing information
6. The Board may require the sponsor to furnish such further information or clarification as may be required by it. Eligibility criteria
7. For the purpose of grant of a certificate of registration, the applicant has to fulfill the following, namely— (a)  the sponsor should have a sound track record and general reputation of fairness and integrity in all his business transactions. sponsor should— (i)  be carrying on business  in  financial services  for  a period of not  less than five years; and (ii)  the networth is positive in all the immediately preceding five years; and (iii)  the  networth  in  the  immediately  preceding  year  is  more  than  the  capital contribution of the sponsor in the asset management company; and (iv)  the sponsor has profits after providing for depreciation, interest and tax in three out of the immediately preceding five years, including the fifth year; “  (y)  “trustee”  means  a  person  who  holds  the  property  of  the  mutual  fund  in  trust  for  the  benefit  of  the unitholders and includes a trustee company and the directors of the trustee company;” 19[(aa)  the applicant is a fit and proper person;] (b)  in the case of an existing mutual fund, such fund is in the form of a trust and the trust deed has been approved by the Board; (c)  the sponsor has contributed or contributes at least 40% to the net worth of the asset management company: Provided  that  any  person  who  holds  40%  or  more  of  the  net  worth  of  an  asset management company shall be deemed to be a sponsor and will be required to fulfill the eligibility criteria specified in these regulations; (d)  the sponsor or any of its directors or the principal officer to be employed by the mutual fund  should  not  have  been  guilty  of  fraud  or  has  not  been  convicted  of  an  offence involving moral turpitude or has not been found guilty of any economic offence; (e)  appointment of trustees to act as trustees for the mutual fund in accordance with the provisions of the regulations; (f)  appointment of asset management company to manage the mutual fund and operate the scheme of such funds in accordance with the provisions of these regulations; 20[(g) appointment of custodian in order to keep custody of the securities 21[or goods] or gold and gold related instrument or other assets of the mutual fund held in terms of these regulations, and provide such other custodial services as may be authorised by the trustees.] 22[Criteria for fit and proper person
7A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the mutual fund is a fit and proper person the Board may take into account the criteria specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.] 23[Norms for Shareholding and Governance in Mutual Funds
7B. (1) No sponsor of a mutual fund, its associate or group company including the asset management company of the fund, through the schemes of the mutual fund or otherwise, individually or collectively, directly or indirectly, have – (a)  10%  or  more  of  the  share-holding  or  voting  rights  in  the  asset  management company or the trustee company of any other mutual fund; or (b) representation  on  the  board  of  the  asset  management  company  or  the  trustee company of any other mutual fund. Any shareholder holding 10% or more of the share-holding or voting rights in the
(2) asset  management  company  or  the  trustee  company  of  a  mutual  fund,  shall  not  have, directly or indirectly, - (a)  10%  or  more  of  the  share-holding  or  voting  rights  in  the  asset  management company or the trustee company of any other mutual fund; or (b) representation  on  the  board  of  the  asset  management  company  or  the  trustee company of any other mutual fund.
(3)   Any person not in conformity with the sub-regulations (1) and (2) of this regulation, as on the date of the coming into force of this regulation shall comply with sub-regulations
(1)  and  (2)  within  a  period  of  one  year  from  the  date  of  the  coming  into  force  of  this regulation:] 24[Provided that in the event of a merger, acquisition, scheme of arrangement or any other arrangement  involving  the  sponsors  of  the  mutual  funds,  shareholders  of  the  asset management companies or trustee companies, their associates or group companies which results in the incidental acquisition of shares, voting rights or representation on the board of the asset management companies or trustee companies, this regulation shall be complied with within a period of one year of coming into force of such an arrangement.] Consideration of application
8. The Board, may on receipt of all information decide the application. Grant of Certificate of Registration
9. The Board may register the mutual fund and grant a certificate in Form B on the applicant paying the registration fee as specified in Second Schedule. Terms and conditions of registration
10. The registration granted to  a mutual  fund under regulation  9, shall be subject  to  the following terms and conditions— (a)  the  trustees,  the  sponsor,  the  asset  management  company  and  the  custodian  shall comply with the provisions of these regulations; (b)  the mutual  fund shall forthwith inform  the Board, if any information  or  particulars previously submitted to the Board was misleading or false in any material respect; (c)  the  mutual  fund  shall  forthwith  inform  the  Board,  of  any  material  change  in  the information  or  particulars  previously  furnished,  which  have  a  bearing  on  the registration granted by it; (d)  payment of fees as specified in the regulations and the Second Schedule. Rejection of application
11. Where the sponsor does not satisfy the eligibility criteria mentioned in regulation 7, the Board may reject the application and inform the applicant of the same. Payment of 25[annual] service fee12. A mutual fund shall pay before the 15th April each year a service fee as specified in the Second Schedule for every financial year from the year following the year of registration: Provided that the Board may, on being satisfied with the reasons for the delay permit the mutual fund to pay the service fee at any time before the expiry of two months from the commencement of the financial year to which such fee relates. Failure to pay 26[annual] service fee
13. The Board may not permit a mutual fund who has not paid service fee to launch any scheme. CHAPTER III CONSTITUTION AND MANAGEMENT OF MUTUAL FUND AND OPERATION OF TRUSTEES, ETC. Trust deed to be registered under the Registration Act
14. A mutual fund shall be constituted in the form of a trust  and the instrument of trust shall  be  in  the  form  of  a  deed,  duly  registered  under  the  provisions  of  the  Indian Registration  Act,  1908  (16  of  1908),  executed  by  the  sponsor  in  favour  of  the  trustees named in such an instrument. Contents of trust deed
15. (1) The trust deed shall contain such clauses as are mentioned in the Third Schedule and such other clauses which are necessary for safeguarding the interests of the unitholders.
(2) No trust deed shall contain a clause which has the effect of—
2006. (i)  limiting or extinguishing the obligations and liabilities of the trust in relation to any mutual fund or the unitholders; or (ii)  indemnifying  the  trustees  or  the  asset  management  company  for  loss  or  damage caused  to  the  unitholders  by  their  acts  of  negligence  or  acts  of  commission  or omission. Disqualification from being appointed as trustees
16. (1) A mutual fund shall appoint trustees in accordance with these regulations.
(2) No person shall be eligible to be appointed as a trustee unless— (a)  he is a person of ability, integrity and standing; and (b)  has not been found guilty of moral turpitude; and (c)  has not been convicted of any economic offence or violation of any securities laws; and (d)  has furnished particulars as specified in Form C.
(3)  27[No  asset  management  company  and  no  director  (including  independent  director), officer or employee of an asset management company shall be eligible to be appointed as a trustee of any mutual fund.]”
(4)  28[No  person  who  is  appointed  as  a  trustee  of  a  mutual  fund  shall  be  eligible  to  be appointed as  a trustee of any other mutual fund: Provided that any mutual fund which is not in compliance with sub-regulation (3) or (4) as at the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2006 shall ensure compliance therewith within three months from such commencement.]”
29[(5) Two-thirds of the trustees shall be independent persons and shall not be associated with the sponsors or be associated with them in any manner whatsoever.]
(6) In case a company is appointed as a trustee then its directors can act as trustees of any other trust provided that the object of the trust is not in conflict with the object of the mutual fund. to its substitution, sub-regulation (3)  read as under;
“(3) An asset management company or any of its officers or employees shall not be eligible to act as a trustee of any mutual fund.” to its substitution, sub-regulation (4)  read as under;
“(4) No person who is appointed as a trustee of a mutual fund  can be appointed as a trustee of any other mutual fund unless— (a)  such a person is an independent trustee referred to in sub-regulation (5); and (b) prior approval of the mutual fund of which he is a trustee has been obtained for such an appointment.” substitution, sub-regulation (5)  read as under; “Atleast  50%  of  the  trustees  shall  be  independent  persons  and  no  such  trustee  shall  be  an  associate  or  a subsidiary or associated in any manner with the sponsor.” Approval of the Board for appointment of trustee
17. (1) No trustee shall initially or any time thereafter be appointed without prior approval of the Board. 30[***]
(2) The existing trustees of any mutual fund may form a trustee company to act as a trustee with the prior approval of the Board. Rights and obligations of the trustees.
18. (1) The trustees and the asset management company shall with the prior approval of the Board enter into an investment management agreement.
(2) The investment management agreement shall contain such clauses as are mentioned in the  Fourth  Schedule  and  such  other  clauses  as  are  necessary  for  the  purpose  of  making investments.
(3)  The  trustees  shall  have  a  right  to  obtain  from  the  asset  management  company  such information as is considered necessary by the trustees.
(4) The trustees shall ensure before the launch of any scheme that the asset management company, has,— (a)  systems in place for its back office, dealing room and accounting; (b)  appointed  all  key  personnel  including  fund  manager(s)  for  the  scheme(s)  and submitted  their  bio-data  which  shall  contain  the  educational  qualifications,  past experience in the securities market with the trustees, within 15 days of their appoint- ment; (c)  appointed auditors to audit its accounts; 31[(d)  appointed  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be  responsible  for  monitoring  the compliance of the Act,  rules and regulations,  notifications, guidelines, instructions, etc.,  issued  by  the  Board  or  the  Central  Government  and  for  redressal  of  investors grievances;] (e)  appointed registrars and laid down parameters for their supervision; (f)  prepared a compliance manual and designed internal control mechanisms including internal audit systems; (g)  specified norms for empanelment of brokers and marketing agents; omission, regulation 17(1) proviso read as under; “Provided further that if any trustee resigns or retires, a new trustee shall be appointed within a period of three months with the prior approval of the Board.”
29-5-2001. Prior to its substitution, clause (d)  read as under; “(d)  appointed  a  compliance  officer  to  comply  with  regulatory  requirement  and  to  redress  investor grievances;” 32[(h)  obtained, wherever required under these regulations, prior in principle approval from the recognised stock exchange(s) where units are proposed to be listed.] 33[(4A)  The  compliance  officer  appointed  under  clause  (d)  of  sub-regulation  (4)  shall immediately and independently report to the Board any non-compliance observed by him.]
(5)  The  trustees  shall  ensure  that  an  asset  management  company  has  been  diligent  in empanelling the brokers, in monitoring securities transactions with brokers and avoiding undue concentration of business with any broker.
(6) The trustees shall ensure that the asset management company has not given any undue or  unfair  advantage  to  any  associates  or  dealt  with  any  of  the  associates  of  the  asset management company in any manner detrimental to interest of the unitholders.
(7) The trustees shall ensure that the transactions entered into by the  asset  management company are in accordance with these regulations and the scheme.
(8) The trustees shall ensure that the asset management company has been managing the mutual fund schemes independently of other activities and have taken adequate steps to ensure that the interest of investors of one scheme are not being compromised with those of any other scheme or of other activities of the asset management company.
(9) The trustees shall ensure that all the activities of the asset management company are in accordance with the provisions of these regulations.
(10) Where the trustees have reason to believe that the conduct of business of the mutual fund is not in accordance with these regulations and the scheme they shall forthwith take such remedial steps as are necessary by them and shall immediately inform the Board of the violation and the action taken by them.
34[(11) Each trustee shall file the details of his transactions of dealing in securities with the Mutual Fund on a quarterly basis.]
(12) The trustees shall be accountable for, and be the custodian of, the funds and property of the respective schemes and shall hold the same in trust for the benefit of the unitholders in accordance with these regulations and the provisions of trust deed.
(13) The trustees shall take steps to ensure that the transactions of the mutual fund are in accordance with the provisions of the trust deed.
(14) The trustees shall be responsible for the calculation of any income due to be paid to the mutual fund and also of any income received in the mutual fund for the holders of the units of any scheme in accordance with these regulations and the trust deed.
(15) The trustees shall obtain the consent of the unitholders— (a)  whenever required to do so by the Board in the interest of the unitholders; or (b)  whenever  required  to  do  so  on  the  requisition  made  by  three-fourths  of  the  unit- holders of any scheme; or
2001. substitution, sub-regulation (11)  read as under;
“(11) Each trustee shall file the details of his holdings in securities on a half early basis with the trust.” (c)  when the majority of the trustees decide to wind up or prematurely redeem the units. (d)  35[* * *] 36[(15A)  The  trustees  shall  ensure  that  no  change  in  the  fundamental  attributes  of  any scheme or the trust or fees and expenses payable or any other change which would modify the scheme and affects the interest of unitholders, shall be carried out unless,— (i)  a written communication about the proposed change is sent to each unitholder and an advertisement is given in one English daily newspaper having nationwide circulation as well as in a newspaper published in the language of region where the Head Office of the mutual fund is situated; and (ii)  the unitholders are given an option to exit at the prevailing Net Asset Value without any exit load.]
(16) The trustees shall call for the details of transactions in securities by the key personnel of the asset management company in his own name or on behalf of the asset management company and shall report to the Board, as and when required.
(17)  The  trustees  shall  quarterly  review  all  transactions  carried  out  between  the  mutual funds, asset management company and its associates.
(18) The trustees shall 37[quarterly] review the networth of the asset management company and in case of any shortfall, ensure that the asset management company make up for the shortfall as per clause (f) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 21. Prior to omission clause (d) read as under; “(d) when any change in the fundamental attributes of any scheme or the trust or fees and expenses payable or any other change which would modify the scheme or affect the interest of the unitholders is proposed to be carried out unless the consent of not less than three-fourths of the unit holders is obtained: Provided that no such change shall be carried out unless three fourths of the unit holders have given their consent and the unit holders who do not give their consent are allowed to redeem their holdings in the scheme. *[Provided further that in case of an open ended scheme, the consent of the unitholders shall not be necessary if: (i) (ii) (iii) the change in fundamental attribute is carried out after one year from the date of allotment of units. (ii) the unitholders are informed about the proposed change in fundamental attribute by sending individual  communication  and  an  advertisement  is  given  in  English  daily  newspaper  having nationwide circulation and in a newspaper published in the language of the region where the head office of the mutual fund is situated. the unitholders are given an option to exit at the prevailing Net Asset Value without any exit load] terms of a scheme."
1998. (19)  The  trustees  shall  periodically  review  all  service  contracts  such  as  custody arrangements,  transfer  agency  of  the  securities  and  satisfy  itself  that  such  contracts  are executed in the interest of the unitholders.
(20) The trustees shall ensure that there is no conflict of interest between the manner of deployment of its networth by the asset management company and the interest of the unit- holders.
(21)  The  trustees  shall  periodically  review  the  investor  complaints  received  and  the redressal of the same by the asset management company.
(22) The trustees shall abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in  38[PART-A of] the Fifth Schedule.
(23) The trustees shall furnish to the Board on a half-yearly basis,— (a)  a report on the activities of the mutual fund; (b)  a certificate stating that the trustees have satisfied themselves that there have been no instances  of  self-dealing  or  front  running  by  any  of  the  trustees,  directors  and  key personnel of the asset management company; (c)  a certificate to the effect that the asset management company has been managing the schemes independently of any other activities and in case any activities of the nature referred to in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 24 have been undertaken by the asset management company and has taken adequate steps to ensure that the interests of the unitholders are protected.
39[(24) The independent trustees referred to in sub-regulation (5) of regulation 16 shall give their comments on the report received from the asset management company regarding the investments by the mutual fund in the securities of group companies of the sponsor.]
40[(25) Trustees shall exercise due diligence as under: A. General Due Diligence: (i)  The Trustees shall be discerning in the appointment of the directors on the Board of the asset management company. (ii)  Trustees  shall  review  the  desirability  or  continuance  of  the  asset  management company if substantial irregularities are observed in any of the schemes and shall not allow the asset management company to float new schemes. (iii)  The  Trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  trust  property  is  properly  protected,  held  and administered by proper persons and by a proper number of such persons. (iv)  The Trustee shall ensure that all service providers are holding appropriate registrations from the Board or concerned regulatory authority. (v)  The Trustees shall arrange for test checks of service contracts. (vi)  Trustees  shall  immediately  report  to  the  Board  of  any  special  developments  in  the mutual fund. B. Specific due diligence: The Trustees shall: (i)  obtain internal audit reports at regular intervals from independent auditors appointed by the Trustees, (ii)  obtain  compliance  certificates  at  regular  intervals  from  the  asset  management company, (iii)  hold meeting of trustees more frequently, (iv)  consider  the  reports  of  the  independent  auditor  and  compliance  reports  of  asset management company at the meetings of trustees for appropriate action, (v)  maintain records of the decisions of the Trustees at their meetings and of the minutes of the meetings, (vi)  prescribe and adhere to a code of ethics by the Trustees, asset management company and its personnel, (vii) communicate  in  writing  to  the  asset  management  company  of  the  deficiencies  and checking on the rectification of deficiencies.
(26) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulations (1) to (25), the trustees shall not be held liable for acts done in good faith if they have exercised adequate due diligence honestly.
(27)  The  independent  directors  of  the  trustees  or  asset  management  company  shall  pay specific attention to the following, as may be applicable, namely:— (i)  the  Investment  Management  Agreement  and  the  compensation  paid  under  the agreement, (ii)  service  contracts  with  affiliates—whether  the  asset  management  company  has charged higher fees than outside contractors for the same services, (iii)  selections of the asset management company’s independent directors, (iv)  securities  transactions  involving  affiliates  to  the  extent  such  transactions  are permitted, (v)  selecting and nominating individuals to fill independent directors vacancies, (vi)  code  of  ethics  must  be  designed  to  prevent  fraudulent,  deceptive  or  manipulative practices by insiders in connection with personal securities transactions, (vii) the  reasonableness  of  fees  paid  to  sponsors,  asset  management  company  and  any others for services provided, (viii) principal underwriting contracts and their renewals, (ix)  any service contract with the associates of the asset management company.] CHAPTER IV CONSTITUTION AND MANAGEMENT OF ASSET MANAGEMENT COMPANY AND CUSTODIAN Application by an asset management company
19. (1) The application for the approval of the asset management company shall be made in Form D.
(2) The provisions of regulations 5, 6 and 8 shall, so far as may be, apply to the application made under sub-regulation (1) as they apply to the application for registration of a mutual fund. Appointment of an asset management company
20. (1) The sponsor or, if so authorised by the trust deed, the trustee, shall appoint an asset management company, which has been approved by the Board under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 21.
(2) The appointment of an asset management company can be terminated by majority of the trustees or by seventy-five per cent of the unitholders of the scheme.
(3) Any change in the appointment of the asset management company shall be subject to prior approval of the Board and the unitholders. Eligibility criteria for appointment of asset management company
21. (1) For grant of approval of the asset management company the applicant has to fulfill the following :— (a)  in case the asset management company is an existing asset management company it has a sound track record, general reputation and fairness in transactions. and the profitability of the asset management company; 41[(aa)  the asset management company is a fit and proper person;] (b)  the  directors  of  the  asset  management  company  are  persons  having  adequate professional experience in finance and financial services related field and not found guilty of moral turpitude or convicted of any economic offence or violation of any securities laws; (c)  the key personnel of the asset management company 42[have not been found guilty of moral turpitude or convicted of economic offence or violation of securities laws] 43[or worked]  for  any  asset  management  company  or  mutual  fund  or  any  intermediary 44[during the period when its] registration has been suspended or cancelled at any time by the Board; (d)  the board of directors of such asset management company has at least fifty per cent directors, who are not associate of, or associated in any manner with, the sponsor or any of its subsidiaries or the trustees; (e)  the Chairman of the asset management company is not a trustee of any mutual fund; 42 Inserted ibid.. “has not been working”. “whose”. (f)  the asset management company has a networth of not less than rupees 45[fifty crore]: Provided  that  an  asset  management  company  already  granted  approval  under  the provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual  Funds) Regulations, 46[1996]  shall  within  a  period  of  47[three  years]  from  the  date  of  notification  of 48[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014] increase its networth to rupees 49[fifty crore]: 50[***] Provided further that no new schemes shall be allowed to be launched or managed by such asset management company till the networth has been raised to rupees 51[fifty crore].] the paid up capital and free reserves of the asset management company after deducting therefrom  miscellaneous  expenditure  to  the  extent  not  written  off  or  adjusted  or deferred revenue expenditure, intangible assets and accumulated losses.] 53[Provided further that an asset management company of a mutual fund eligible to launch only infrastructure debt fund schemes, shall have a networth of not less than rupees ten crore.] 54[Provided  further  that  in  cases  where  the  Board  is  satisfied  that  an  asset management  company  is  taking  steps  to  meet  the  networth  requirement  within  the specified time, the asset management company may be allowed to launch upto two new schemes per year.] paid up capital and free reserves of the asset management company after deducting therefrom  miscellaneous  expenditure  to  the  extent  not  written  off  or  adjusted  or deferred revenue expenditure, intangible assets and accumulated losses. ]
(2) The Board may, after considering an application with reference to the matters specified in sub-regulation (1), grant approval to the asset management company. Terms and conditions to be complied with
22. The approval granted under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 21 shall be subject to the following conditions, namely:— (a)  any director of the asset management company shall not hold the office of the director in another asset management company unless such person is an independent director referred  to  in  clause  (d)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  21  and  approval  of  the Board  of  asset  management  company  of  which  such  person  is  a  director,  has  been obtained; (b)  the  asset  management  company  shall  forthwith  inform  the  Board  of  any  material change in the information or particulars previously furnished, which have a bearing on the approval granted by it; (c)  no appointment of a director of an asset management company shall be made without prior approval of the trustees; (d)  the asset management company undertakes to comply with these regulations; 56[(e)  no  change  in  the  controlling  interest  of  the  asset  management  company  shall  be made unless,— (i)  prior approval of the trustees and the Board is obtained; (ii)  a written communication about the proposed change is sent to each unitholder and an advertisement is given in one English daily newspaper having nationwide circulation and in a newspaper published in the language of the region where the Head Office of the mutual fund is situated; and (iii)  the  unitholders  are  given  an  option  to  exit  on  the  prevailing  Net  Asset  Value without any exit load;] (f)  the asset management company shall furnish such information and documents to the trustees as and when required by the trustees. to its substitution, clause (e) read as under;. “ *[(e) any change in controlling interest of the asset management company shall be only with prior approval of trustees, the Board and the unitholders.” “Provided that in case of an open ended scheme, the consent of the unitholders shall not be necessary if; (i) (ii) the change in control takes place after one year from the date of allotment of units (ii)  the  unitholders  are  informed  about  the  proposed  change  in  the  controlling  interest  of  asset management company by sending individual communication and an advertisement is given in one English  daily  newspaper  having  nationwide  circulation  and  in  a  newspaper  published  in  the language of the region where the head office of the mutual fund is situated. (iii) The unitholders are given an option to exit at the prevailing Net Asset Value without any exit load.]" Procedure where approval is not granted
23. Where an application made under regulation 19 for grant of approval does not satisfy the eligibility criteria laid down in regulation 21, the Board may reject the application. 57[Restrictions on business activities of the asset management company
24. The asset management company shall, - (a)  not act as a trustee of any mutual fund; (b) not undertake any business activities other than in the nature of management and advisory  services  provided  to  pooled  assets  including  offshore  funds,  insurance funds,  pension  funds,  provident  funds,  or  58[such  categories  of  foreign  portfolio investor subject to such conditions, as maybe specified by the Board from time to time], if any of such activities are not in conflict with the activities of the mutual fund: Provided that the asset management company may itself or through its subsidiaries undertake such activities, as permitted under clause (b), if, - (i) it satisfies the Board that bank and securities accounts are segregated activity wise; (ii) it meets with the capital adequacy requirements, if any, separately for each such  activity  and  obtain  separate  approval,  if  necessary  under  the  relevant regulations; (iii)  it  ensures  that  there  is  no  material  conflict  of  interest  across  different activities; (iv)  the absence of conflict of interest shall be disclosed to the trustees and unit holders  in  scheme  information  document  and  statement  of  additional information; (v) there are unavoidable conflict of interest situations, it shall satisfy itself that disclosures are made of source of conflict, potential ‘material risk or damage’ to investor interests and detailed parameters for the same; (vi)  it appoints separate fund manager for each separate fund managed by it unless the investment objectives and asset allocation are same and the portfolio is replicated across all the funds managed by the fund manager, within a period of six months from the date of notification of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011; 59[Provided that the requirements of this clause shall not apply if the funds managed are of 60[such categories of foreign portfolio investor subject to such conditions, as maybe specified by the Board from time to time]]. (vii)  it  ensures  fair  treatment  of  investors  across  different  products  that  shall include,  but  not  limited  to,  simultaneous  buy  and  sell  in  the  same  equity security  only  through  market  mechanism  and  a  written  trade  order management system;  and (viii) it  ensures  independence  to  key  personnel  handling  the  relevant  conflict  of interest is provided through removal of direct link between remuneration to relevant  asset  management  company  personnel  and  revenues  generated  by that activity: Provided further that the asset management company may, itself or through its subsidiaries, undertake portfolio management services and advisory services for other than broad based fund till further directions, as may be specified by the Board, subject to compliance with the following additional conditions:- (i) it satisfies the Board that key personnel of the asset management company, the system, back office, bank and securities accounts are segregated activity wise  and  there  exist  system  to  prohibit  access  to  inside  information  of various activities; (ii) it meets with the capital adequacy requirements, if any, separately for each of  such  activities  and  obtain    separate  approval,  if  necessary  under  the relevant regulations. 61[Provided further that an asset management company may become a proprietary trading  member  for  carrying  out  trades  in  the  debt  segment  of  the  recognised  stock exchanges,  on  behalf  of  its  mutual  fund  schemes  and  may  also  become  a  self-clearing member  of  the  recognised  clearing  corporations  to  clear  and  settle  trades  in  the  debt segment on behalf of its mutual fund schemes.] (vi) of first proviso to clause (b)], the term ‘broad based fund’ shall mean the fund which has  at  least  twenty  investors  and  no  single  investor  account  for  more  than  twenty  five percent of corpus of the fund.] Asset management company and its obligations
25. (1) The asset management company shall take all reasonable steps and exercise due diligence to ensure that the investment of funds pertaining to any scheme is not contrary to the provisions of these regulations and the trust deed.
(2)  The  asset  management  company  shall  exercise  due  diligence  and  care  in  all  its investment decisions as would be exercised by other persons engaged in the same business. 63[2A)  The  asset  management  company  shall  obtain,  wherever  required  under  these regulations, prior in-principle approval from the recognized tock exchange(s) where units are proposed to be listed.]
(3)  The  asset  management  company  shall  be  responsible  for  the  acts  of  commission  or omission by its employees or the persons whose services have been procured by the asset management company.
(4) The asset management company shall submit to the trustees quarterly reports of each year on its activities and the compliance with these regulations.
(5)  The  trustees  at  the  request  of  the  asset  management  company  may  terminate  the assignment of the asset management company at any time: Provided that such termination shall become effective only after the trustees have accepted the  termination  of  assignment  and  communicated  their  decision  in  writing  to  the  asset management company.
(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in any contract or agreement or termination, the asset  management  company  or  its  directors  or  other  officers  shall  not  be  absolved  of
19-8-2013. Prior to its substitution, the proviso read as under; “Provided further that the asset management company may become a proprietary trading member for carrying out trades in the debt segment of a recognised stock exchange, on behalf of a mutual fund” liability to the mutual fund for their acts of commission or omission, while holding such position or office. 64[(6A) 65[(a)] The Chief Executive Officer (66[whatever be the  designation]) of the asset management company shall ensure that the mutual fund complies with all the provisions of these regulations and the guidelines or circulars issued in relation thereto from time to time and that the investments made by the fund managers  are in the interest  of the unit holders and shall also be responsible for the overall risk management function of the mutual fund. 67[(b)  Chief  Executive  Officer  (whatever  be  the  designation)  shall  also  ensure  that  the Asset  Management  Company  has  adequate  systems  in  place  to  ensure  that  the  Code  of Conduct for Fund Managers and Dealers specified in PART - B of the Fifth Schedule of these regulations are adhered to in letter and spirit. Any breach of the said Code of Conduct shall  be  brought  to  the  attention  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Asset  Management Company and Trustees.] mean and include the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 as amended from time to time. (6B)  68[(a)]The  fund  managers  69[(whatever    be  the  designation  )]  shall  ensure  that  the funds of the schemes are invested to achieve the objectives of the scheme and in the interest of the unit holders.] 70[(b)  The  Fund  Managers  (whatever  be  the  designation)  shall  abide  by  the  Code  of Conduct for Fund Managers and Dealers specified in PART - B of the Fifth Schedule of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 and submit a quarterly self-certification to the Trustees that they have complied with the said code of conduct or list exceptions, if any. “Fund Managers” shall include Chief Investment Officer (whatever be the designation).] 71[(6C) (a) The Dealers (whatever be the designation) shall ensure that orders are executed on  the  best  available  terms,  taking  into  account  the  relevant  market  at  the  time  for transactions of the kind and size concerned to achieve the objectives of the scheme and in the best interest of all the unit holders. sub-regulation, purposes of this the phrase For the the words “whatever his designation may be”. 67 Inserted ibid. 68 Inserted ibid.. the words “whatever the designation may be”. 70 Inserted ibid. 71 Inserted ibid. (b) The Dealers (whatever be the designation) shall abide by the Code of Conduct for Fund Managers and Dealers specified in PART - B of the Fifth Schedule of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 and submit a quarterly self- certification to the Trustees that they have complied with the said code of conduct or list exceptions, if any.] 72[(7)(a) An asset management company shall not through any broker associated with the sponsor, purchase or sell securities, which is average of 5 per cent or more of the aggregate purchases and sale of securities made by the mutual fund in all its schemes : Provided that for the purpose of this sub-regulation, the aggregate purchase and sale of securities shall exclude sale and distribution of units issued by the mutual fund : Provided further that the aforesaid limit of 5 per cent shall apply for a block of any three months. (b) An asset management company shall not purchase or sell securities through any broker [other than a broker referred to in clause (a) of sub-regulation (7)] which is average of 5 per cent or more of the aggregate purchases and sale of securities made by the mutual fund in  all  its  schemes,  unless  the  asset  management  company  has  recorded  in  writing  the justification for exceeding the limit of 5 per cent and reports of all such investments are sent to the trustees on a quarterly basis : Provided that the aforesaid limit shall apply for a block of three months.]
(8) An asset management company shall not utilise the services of the sponsor or any of its associates, employees or their relatives, for the purpose of any securities transaction and distribution and sale of securities: Provided that an asset management company may utilise such services if disclosure to that effect is made to the unitholders and the brokerage or commission paid is also disclosed in the half-yearly annual accounts of the mutual fund : 73[Provided further that the mutual funds shall disclose at the time of declaring half-yearly and yearly results : (i)  any  underwriting  obligations  undertaken  by  the  schemes  of  the  mutual  funds  with respect to issue of securities associate companies, (ii)  devolvement, if any, (iii)  subscription by the schemes in the issues lead managed by associate companies, (iv)  subscription  to  any  issue  of  equity  or  debt  on  private  placement  basis  where  the sponsor or its associate companies have acted as arranger or manager.]
(9) The asset management company shall file with the trustees the details of transactions in securities by the key personnel of the asset management company in their own name or on behalf of the asset management company and shall also report to the Board, as and when required by the Board. substitution, sub-regulation 7 read as under;
“(7)  No asset management company shall deal in securities through any broker associated with the sponsor or a firm which is an associate of a sponsor beyond 5% of the daily gross business of the mutual fund.”
(10) In case the asset management company enters into any securities transactions with any of  its  associates  a  report  to  that  effect  shall  74[***]  be  sent  to  the  trustees  75[at  its  next meeting].
(11)  In case any  company  has invested more than 5 per cent  of the net  asset value of  a scheme, the investment made by that scheme or by any other scheme of the same mutual fund in that company or its subsidiaries shall be brought to the notice of the trustees by the asset management company and be disclosed in the half-yearly and annual accounts of the respective schemes with justification for such investment 76[provided the latter investment has been made within one year of the date of the former investment calculated on either side].
(12) The asset management company shall file with the trustees and the Board— (a)  detailed bio-data of all its directors along with their interest in other companies within fifteen days of their appointment; (b)  any change in the interests of directors every six months; and 77[(c)  a quarterly report to the trustees giving details and adequate justification about the purchase and sale of the securities of the group companies of the sponsor or the asset management  company,  as  the  case  may  be,  by  the  mutual  fund  during  the  said quarter.]
78[(13)  Each  director  of  the  asset  management  company  shall  file  the  details  of  his transactions  of  dealing  in  securities  with  the  trustees  on  a  quarterly  basis  in  accordance with guidelines issued by the Board.]
(14) The asset management company shall not appoint any person as key personnel who has been found guilty of any economic offence or involved in violation of securities laws.
(15) The asset management company shall appoint registrars and share transfer agents who are registered with the Board: Provided if the work relating to the transfer of units is processed in-house, the charges at competitive  market  rates  may  be  debited  to  the  scheme  and  for  rates  higher  than  the competitive market rates, prior approval of the trustees shall be obtained and reasons for charging higher rates shall be disclosed in the annual accounts.
(16) The asset management company shall abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in 79[PART-A of ] the Fifth Schedule.
80[(17) The asset management company shall not invest in any of its scheme, unless full disclosure  of  its  intention  to  invest  has  been  made  in  the  offer  documents,  in  case  of
1998. 75 Inserted  ibid.. 76 Inserted  ibid.. 77 Inserted  ibid.. to its substitution, sub-regulation (13) read as under;
“(13) A statement of holding in securities of the directors of the asset management company shall be filed with the trustees with the dates of acquisition of such securities at the end of each financial year.” schemes launched after the notification of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011: Provided that an asset management company shall not be entitled to charge any fee on its investment in that scheme.
(18) The asset management company shall not carry out its operations including trading desk, unit holder servicing and investment operations outside the territory of India: Provided that the asset management company having any of its operations outside India shall wind up and bring them within the territory of India within a period of one year form the  date  of  notification  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual  Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011: Provided further that the Board may grant a further period of one year if it is satisfied that there  was  sufficient  cause  for  not  winding  up  of  the  operation  outside  India  within  that period.]
81[(19)  The  asset  management  company  shall  compute  and  carry  out  valuation  of investments  made  by  its  scheme(s)  in  accordance  with  the  investment  valuation  norms specified in Eighth Schedule, and shall publish the same.
(20) The asset management company and the sponsor of the mutual fund shall be liable to compensate  the  affected  investors  and/or  the  scheme  for  any  unfair  treatment  to  any investor as a result of inappropriate valuation.
(21) The asset management company shall report and disclose all the transactions in debt and money market securities, including inter scheme transfers, as may be specified by the Board.] Appointment of custodian
26. (1) The mutual fund shall appoint a Custodian to carry out the custodial services for the schemes of the fund and sent intimation of the same to the Board within fifteen days of the appointment of the Custodian: 82[Provided that in case of a gold exchange traded fund scheme, the assets of the scheme being gold or gold related instruments may be kept in the custody of a custodian registered with the Board:] 83[Provided further that in case of a real estate mutual fund scheme, the title deed of real estate assets held by it may be kept in the custody of a custodian registered with the Board.] 84[Provided  also  that  mutual  fund  schemes  investing  in  exchange  traded  commodity derivatives may appoint a custodian to  have custody of the underlying  goods in  case of physical settlement of such contracts.] substitution the proviso read as under; Provided that in case of a gold exchange traded fund scheme, the assets of the scheme being gold or gold related instruments may be kept in custody of a bank which is registered as a custodian with the Board:]
(2) No custodian in  which the sponsor or its  associates hold  50 per  cent  or more of the voting  rights  of  the  share  capital  of  the  custodian  or  where  50  per  cent  or  more  of  the directors of the custodian represent the interest of the sponsor or its associates shall act as custodian  for  a  mutual  fund  constituted  by  the  same  sponsor  or  any  of  its  associates  or subsidiary company: 85[Provided that where the sponsor or its associates hold 50 per cent or more of the voting rights of the share capital of the custodian, such custodian may act as custodian for a  mutual  fund  constituted  by  the  same  sponsor  or  any  of  its  associates  or  subsidiary company if: (i)  the sponsor has a net worth of at least twenty thousand crore rupees at all points of time; (ii) 50 per cent or more of the directors of the custodian are those who do not represent the interest of the sponsor or its associates; (iii)the custodian and the asset management company of a mutual fund are not subsidiaries of each other; (iv) no person is a director of both the custodian and the asset management company of a mutual fund; and (v) the custodian and the asset management company of a mutual fund sign an undertaking that they will act independently of each other in their dealings with the scheme.] Agreement with custodian
27. The mutual fund shall enter into a custodian agreement with the custodian, which shall contain the clauses which are necessary for the efficient and orderly conduct of the affairs of the custodian: Provided that the agreement, the service contract, terms and appointment of the custodian shall be entered into with the prior approval of the trustees. CHAPTER V SCHEMES OF MUTUAL FUND Procedure for launching of schemes
28. (1) No scheme shall be launched by the asset management company unless such scheme is approved by the trustees and a copy of the offer document has been filed with the Board.
86[(2) The mutual fund shall pay the minimum filing fee specified in the Second Schedule to the Board while filing the offer document under sub-regulation (1). its substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as under;
(3)  The  mutual  fund  shall  pay  the  balance  filing  fee  calculated  in  accordance  with  the Second Schedule to the Board within such time as may be specified by the Board.]
87[88[(4) The sponsor or asset management company shall invest not less than one percent of the amount which would be raised in the new fund offer or fifty lakh rupees, whichever is less, and such investment shall not be redeemed unless the scheme is wound up: Provided that the investment by the sponsor or asset management company shall be made in such option of the scheme, as may be specified by the Board.]
(5)  The  sponsor  or  asset  management  company  of  schemes  existing  as  on  date  of notification of the SEBI(Mutual Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 2014 shall invest not less  than  one  percent  of  the  assets  under  management  of  the  scheme  as  on  date  of notification of these regulations or fifty lakh rupees, whichever is less, in the growth option of the scheme and such investment shall not be redeemed unless the scheme is wound up: Provided that the amount calculated as per this sub-regulation shall be invested within one year from the date of notification of these regulations: Provided further this sub-regulation shall not apply to close ended schemes.] Disclosures in the offer document
29. (1) The offer document shall contain disclosures which are adequate in order to enable the  investors  to  make  informed  investment  decision  89[including  the  disclosure  on maximum investments proposed to be made by the scheme in the listed securities of the group companies of the sponsor.]
(2) The Board may in the interest of investors require the asset management company to carry out such modifications in the offer document as it deems fit.
(3) In case no modifications are suggested by the Board in the offer document within 21 90[working]  days  from  the  date  of  filing,  the  asset  management  company  may  issue  the offer document.
91[(4) No one shall issue any form of application for units of a mutual fund unless the form is accompanied by the memorandum containing such information as may be specified by the Board.]
“(2) Every mutual fund shall along with the offer document of each scheme pay filing fees as specified in the Second Schedule.” substitution the proviso read as under;
“(4) The sponsor or asset management company shall invest not less than one percent of the amount which would be raised in the new  fund offer or  fifty lakh rupees,  whichever is less, in the  growth option of the scheme and such investment shall not be redeemed unless the scheme is wound up: Provided that this sub-regulation shall not apply to close ended schemes”.
92[(5)  The  offer  document  shall  contain  the  disclosure  regarding  the  prior  in  principle approval obtained from the recognized stock exchange(s), where units are proposed to be listed in accordance with these regulations.] 93[Nomination
29A.  (1)  The  asset  management  company  shall  provide  an  option  to  the  unitholder  to nominate, in the manner specified in Fourth Schedule, a person in whom the units held by him shall vest in the event of his death.
(2) Where the units are held  by more than  one person jointly, the joint  unitholders may together nominate a person in whom all the rights in the units shall vest in the event of death of all the joint unitholders.] Advertisement material.
30. 94[***] Advertisements 95[***] shall be in conformity with the Advertisement Code as specified in the Sixth Schedule and shall be submitted to the Board within 7 days from the date of issue.
(2) 96[***] Misleading statements
31. The offer document and advertisement materials shall not be misleading or contain any statement or opinion which are incorrect or false. 97[In-principle approval from recognised stock exchange(s).
31A. The listed entity, which intends to list units of its  scheme on the recognised stock exchange(s), shall obtain ‘in-principle’ approval from recognised stock exchange(s) in the manner as specified by the recognised stock exchange(s) from time to time. Listing Agreement.
31B. (1) Every mutual fund desirous of listing units of its schemes on a recognised stock exchange shall execute an agreement with such stock exchange.
(2)  Every  mutual  fund  which  has  previously  entered  into  agreements  with  a  recognised stock exchange to list units of its schemes shall execute a fresh listing agreement with such stock exchange within six months of the date of notification of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.] 98[Listing of close ended schemes
32. Every close ended scheme, other than an equity linked savings scheme, shall be listed on a recognised stock exchange within such time period and subject to such conditions as specified by the Board: Provided that listing of close ended scheme launched prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009 shall not be mandatory — (a) if the said scheme provides for periodic repurchase facility to all the unitholders with restriction, if any, on the extent of such repurchase; or (b) if the said scheme provides for monthly income or caters to special classes of persons like  senior  citizens,  women,  children,  widows  or  physically  handicapped  or  any  special class of persons providing for repurchase of units at regular intervals; or (c) if the details of such repurchase facility are clearly disclosed in the offer document; or (d) if the said scheme opens for repurchase within a period of six months from the closure of subscription; or (e) if the said scheme is a capital protection oriented scheme.] Repurchase of close ended schemes
33.  99[(1)  Units  of  a  close  ended  scheme,  other  than  those  of  an  equity  linked  savings scheme, launched on or after the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009 shall not be repurchased before the end of maturity period of such scheme.]
(2) The units of close ended schemes referred to in the proviso to regulation 32 may be open for sale or redemption at fixed predetermined intervals 100[***] if the maximum and minimum  amount  of  sale  or  redemption  of  the  units  and  the  periodicity  of  such  sale  or redemption have been disclosed in the offer document. 101[***]
(3) The units of close ended scheme may be converted into open-ended scheme,— (a)  if  the  offer  document  of  such  scheme  discloses  the  option  and  the  period  of  such conversion; or 102[(b) the unitholders are provided with an option to redeem their units in full 103[; and]] 104[(c)  the  initial  issue  expenses  of  the  scheme  launched  prior  to  commencement  of  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008 have been amortised fully in accordance with the Tenth Schedule.]
(4) A close ended scheme shall be fully redeemed at the end of the maturity period 105[***] 106[Provided that a close-ended scheme may be allowed to be rolled over if the purpose, period and other terms of the roll over and all other material details of the scheme including the likely composition  of assets immediately before the roll over, the net assets and net asset value of the scheme, are disclosed to the unitholders and a copy of the same has been filed with the Board : Provided further that such roll over will be permitted only in the case of those unitholders who express their consent in writing and the unitholders who do not opt for the roll over or have not given written consent shall be allowed to redeem their holdings in full at net asset value based price.]
1-1998. clause (2A) read as under; “* [(2A) The asset management company shall not repurchase units of a capital protection oriented scheme before end of the maturity period.]” ‘the majority of the unitholders gives a consent to that effect.” substitution, clause (c) read as under; “*[(c)  the  initial  issue  expenses  of  the  scheme  have  been  amortised  fully  in  accordance  with  the  Tenth Schedule.]” 105 The words, ‘unless a majority of the unitholders otherwise decide for its roll over by passing a resolution’ Offering period
34. No scheme of  a mutual  fund other than the  107[initial] offering period of any equity linked savings schemes shall be open for subscription for more than 108[15] days: 109[Provided  that  in  case  of  mutual  fund  schemes  eligible  under  Rajiv  Gandhi Equity Savings Scheme, the period specified in this regulation shall not be more than thirty days.] Allotment of units and refunds of moneys
35. (1) The asset management company shall specify in the offer document,— (a)  the minimum subscription amount it seeks to raise under the scheme; and (b)  in case of oversubscription the extent of subscription it may retain : Provided that where the asset management company retains the oversubscription referred to  in  clause  (b),  all  the  applicants  applying  upto  five  thousand  units  shall  be  given  full allotment subject to the oversubscription mentioned in clause (b).
(2)  The  mutual  fund  and  asset  management  company  shall  be  liable  to  refund  the application money to the applicants,— (i)  if the mutual  fund  fails to receive the minimum  subscription amount referred to  in clause (a) of sub-regulation (1); (ii)  if the moneys received from the applicants for units are in excess of subscription as referred to in clause (b) of sub-regulation (1).
(3) Any amount refundable under sub-regulation (2) shall be refunded within a period of 110[five working days] from the date of closure of subscription list, by Registered post with acknowledgement  due  and  by  cheque  or  demand  draft  marked  “A/c  payee”  to  the applicants: 111[Provided  that  in  case  of  mutual  fund  schemes  eligible  under  Rajiv  Gandhi Equity Savings Scheme, the period specified in  this  sub-regulation  shall  be fifteen days from the closure of the initial subscription list.]
(4)  In  the  event  of  failure  to  refund  the  amounts  within  the  period  specified  in  sub- regulation  (3),  the  asset  management  company  shall  be  liable  to  pay  interest  to  the applicants at a rate of fifteen per cent per annum from the expiry of 112[five working days] from the date of closure of the subscription list: 113[Provided  that  in  case  of  mutual  fund  schemes  eligible  under  Rajiv  Gandhi Equity Savings Scheme, the period specified in  this  sub-regulation  shall  be fifteen days from the closure of the initial subscription list.] 114[Statement of accounts or unit certificates
36. (1) The asset management company shall issue to the applicant whose application has been  accepted,  a  statement  of  accounts  specifying  the  number  of  units  allotted  to  the applicant  as  soon  as  possible  but  not  later  than  115[five  working  days]  from  the  date  of closure of the initial subscription list and/or from the date of receipt of the request from the unitholders in any open ended scheme: Provided that if an applicant so desires, the asset management company shall issue the unit certificates to the applicant within 116[five working days] of the receipt of request for the certificate: 117[Provided  further  that  in  case  of  mutual  fund  schemes  eligible  under  Rajiv Gandhi Equity Savings Scheme, the period specified in this sub-regulation shall be fifteen days from the closure of the initial subscription list.]
(2) An applicant in a close ended scheme whose application has been accepted shall have the option either to receive the statement of accounts or to hold units in dematerialised form and the asset management company shall issue to such applicant, a statement of accounts specifying the number of units allotted to the applicant or issue units in dematerialized form as soon as possible but not later than 118[five working days] from the date of closure of the initial subscription list: 119[Provided  that  in  case  of  mutual  fund  schemes  eligible  under  Rajiv  Gandhi Equity Savings Scheme, the period specified in  this  sub-regulation  shall  be fifteen days from the closure of the initial subscription list.]
(3) The asset management company shall issue units in dematerialized form to a unitholder in a close ended scheme listed on a recognised stock exchange within two working days of the receipt of request from the unitholder.]
120[(4) The asset management company shall ensure that consolidated account statement for each calendar month is issued, on or before tenth day of succeeding month, detailing all the transactions and holding at the end of the month including transaction charges paid to the distributor, across all schemes of all mutual funds, to all the investors in whose folios transaction has taken place during that month: Provided  that  the  asset  management  company  shall  ensure  that  a  consolidated  account statement  every  half  yearly  (September/  March)  is  issued,  on  or  before  tenth  day  of succeeding month, detailing holding at the end of the six month, across all schemes of all mutual funds, to all such investors in whose folios no transaction has taken place during that period: Provided  further  that  the  asset  management  company  shall  identify  common  investor across  fund  houses  by  their  permanent  account  number  for  the  purposes  of  sending consolidated account statement. purchase,  redemption,  switch,  dividend  payout,  dividend  reinvestment,  systematic investment  plan,  systematic  withdrawal  plan,  systematic  transfer  plan  and  bonus transactions.] Transfer of units
37. (1) 121[A unit] unless otherwise restricted or prohibited under the scheme, shall be freely transferable by act of parties or by operation of law. 122[(1A) A unitholder, in a close ended scheme listed on a recognized stock exchange, who desires to trade in units shall hold units in dematerialised form.]
(2) The asset management company shall, on production of instrument of transfer together with  relevant  unit  certificates,  register  the  transfer  and  return  the  unit  certificate  to  the transferee within thirty days from the date of such production: Provided  that  if  the  units  are  with  the  depository  such  units  will  be  transferable  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996. Guaranteed returns
38. No guaranteed return shall be provided in a scheme,— (a)  unless  such  returns  are  fully  guaranteed  by  the  sponsor  or  the  asset  management company; (b)  unless a statement indicating the name of the person who will guarantee the return, is made in the offer document; (c)  the manner in which the guarantee is to be met has been stated in the offer document. 123[Capital Protection oriented schemes ‘A unit certificate’. 122 Inserted  ibid.
38A. A capital protection oriented scheme may be launched, subject to the following: (a)  the  units  of  the  scheme  are  rated  by  a  registered  credit  rating  agency  from  the viewpoint of the ability of its portfolio structure to attain protection of the capital invested therein; (b) the scheme is close ended; and (c)  there is compliance with such other requirements as may be specified by the Board in this behalf.] Winding up
39.  (1)  A  close-ended  scheme  shall  be  wound  up  on  the  expiry  of  duration  fixed in  the scheme on the redemption of the units unless it is rolled over for a further period under sub-regulation (4) of regulation 33.
(2) A scheme of a mutual fund may be wound up, after repaying the amount due to the unit holders,— (a)  on  the  happening  of  any  event  which,  in  the  opinion  of  the  trustees,  requires  the scheme to be wound up; or (b)  if  seventy-five  per  cent  of  the  unit  holders  of  a  scheme  pass  a  resolution  that  the scheme be wound up; or (c)  if the Board so directs in the interest of the unitholders.
(3) Where a scheme is to be wound up under 124[***] sub-regulation (2), the trustees shall give notice disclosing the circumstances leading to the winding up of the scheme:— (a)  to the Board; and (b)  in  two  daily  newspapers  having  circulation  all  over  India,  a  vernacular  newspaper circulating at the place where the mutual fund is formed. Effect of winding up
40. On and from the date of the publication of notice under clause (b) of sub-regulation (3) of regulation 39, the trustee or the asset management company as the case may be, shall— (a)  cease to carry on any business activities in respect of the scheme so wound up; (b)  cease to create or cancel units in the scheme; (c)  cease to issue or redeem units in the scheme. Procedure and manner of winding up
41. (1) The trustee shall call a meeting of the unitholders to approve by simple majority of the unitholders present and voting at the meeting resolution for authorising the trustees or any other person to take steps for winding up of the scheme: Provided that a meeting of the unitholders shall not be necessary if the scheme is wound up at the end of maturity period of the scheme. (b) The proceeds of sale realised under clause (a), shall be first utilised towards discharge of such liabilities as are due and payable under the scheme and after making appropriate provision for meeting the expenses connected with such winding up, the balance shall be paid to the unitholders in proportion to their respective interest in the assets of the scheme as on the date when the decision for winding up was taken.
(3) On the completion of the winding up, the trustee shall forward to the Board and the unitholders a report on the winding up containing particulars such as circumstances leading to  the winding up, the steps taken for disposal  of assets of the  fund before winding up, expenses of the fund for winding up, net assets available for distribution to the unit holders and a certificate from the auditors of the fund.
(4)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  this  regulation,  the  provisions  of  these regulations in respect of disclosures of half-yearly reports and annual reports shall continue to be applicable 125[until winding up is completed or the scheme ceases to exist]. Winding up of the scheme
42. After the receipt of the report under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 41, if the Board is satisfied  that  all  measures  for  winding  up  of  the  scheme  have  been  complied  with,  the scheme shall cease to exist. 126[Delisting of units
42A. The units of a mutual fund scheme shall be delisted from a recognised stock exchange in accordance with the guidelines as may be specified by the Board.] CHAPTER VI INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES AND VALUATION POLICIES 127[Investment objective
43. (1) Subject to other provisions of these regulations, a mutual fund may invest moneys collected under any of its schemes only in— substitution, regulation 43  read as under; “Investment objective
43. The moneys collected under any scheme of a mutual fund shall be invested only in transferable securities in the money market or in the capital market or in privately placed debentures or securitised debts: Provided that moneys collected under any money market scheme of a mutual fund shall be invested only in money market instruments in accordance with directions issued by the Reserve Bank of India: Provided  further  that  in  case  of  securitised  debts  such  fund  may  invest  in  asset  backed  securities *[and] mortgaged backed securities. (a)  securities; (b)  money market instruments; (c)  privately placed debentures; (d)  securitised  debt  instruments,  which  are  either  asset  backed  or  mortgage  backed securities; 128[***] (e)  gold or gold related instruments129[; or] 130[(f) real estate assets as defined in clause (a) of regulation 49A 131[;or]] 132[(g)infrastructure debt instrument and assets as specified in clause (1) of regulation 49L.]
(2)  Any  investment  made  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  in  accordance  with  the investment objective of the relevant mutual fund scheme.
(3) Moneys collected under any money market scheme of a mutual fund shall be invested only in money market instruments.
(4) Moneys collected under any gold exchange traded fund scheme shall be invested only in gold or gold related instruments, in accordance with sub-regulation (5) of regulation 44.]
133[(5)  Moneys  collected  under  a  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  shall  be  invested  in accordance with regulation 49E.] Investment, borrowing, restriction, etc.
44.  (1)  Any  investment  to  be  made  under  regulation  43  shall  be  invested  subject  to  the investment restriction specified in the Seventh Schedule: 134[Provided that nothing in the Seventh Schedule 135[, save clause 14 therein] shall apply to a gold exchange traded fund scheme.] 136[(1A) The mutual fund having an aggregate of securities which are worth Rs. 10 crores or more, as on the latest balance-sheet date, shall subject to such instructions as may be issued from time to time by the Board settle their transactions entered on or after January 15, 1998, only through dematerialised securities.]
(2)  The  mutual  fund  shall  not  borrow  except  to  meet  temporary  liquidity  needs  of  the mutual funds for the purpose of repurchase, redemption of units or payment of interest or dividend to the unitholders: Provided that the mutual fund shall not borrow more than 20 per cent of the net asset of the scheme and the duration of such a borrowing shall not exceed a period of six months. 130 Inserted  ibid. 132 Inserted, ibid.
137[(3) Save as otherwise expressly provided under these regulations, the mutual fund shall not advance any loans for any purpose.]
138[(4) A mutual fund may lend and borrow securities in accordance with the framework relating to short selling and securities lending and borrowing specified by the Board.]
139[(5) A gold exchange traded fund scheme shall be subject to the following investment restrictions: (a)  140[***] (b)  the funds of any such scheme shall be invested only in gold or gold related instruments in accordance with its investment objective, except to the extent necessary to meet the liquidity requirements for honouring repurchases or redemptions, as disclosed in the offer document; and (c)  pending  deployment  of  funds  in  accordance  with  clause  (b),  the  mutual  fund  may invest such funds in short-term deposits of scheduled commercial banks.] forward transactions,  derivatives transactions  and  short  selling 141[Carry transactions.
45. (1) The funds of a scheme shall not in any manner be used in carry forward transactions: Provided that a mutual fund may enter into derivatives transactions on a recognized stock exchange, subject to the framework specified by the Board.
(2) A mutual fund may enter into short selling transactions on a recognized stock exchange, subject  to  the  framework  relating  to  short  selling  and  securities  lending  and  borrowing specified by the Board.] Underwriting of securities
46.  Mutual  funds  may  enter  into  underwriting  agreement  after  obtaining  a  certificate  of registration in terms of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Underwriters) Rules and Securities and Exchange Board of India (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993 authorising it to carry on activities as underwriters. deemed as if investments are made in such securities.
(2) The capital adequacy norms for the purpose of underwriting shall be the net asset of the scheme: Provided that the underwriting obligation of a mutual fund shall not at any time exceed the total net asset value of the scheme. 142[Valuation of investments
47.  Every  mutual  fund  shall  ensure  that  the  asset  management  company  computes  and carries  out  valuation  of  investments  made  by  its  scheme(s)  in  accordance  with  the investment valuation norms specified in Eighth Schedule, and publishes the same.] Computation of Net Asset Value
48. (1) Every mutual fund shall compute the Net Asset Value of each scheme by dividing the net assets of the scheme by the number of units outstanding on the valuation date.
143[(2)  The  Net  Asset  Value  of  the  scheme  shall  be  calculated  on  daily  basis  and 144[disclosed in the manner specified by the Board].] Pricing of Units
49. (1) The price at which the units may be subscribed or sold and the price at which such units may at any time be repurchased by the mutual fund shall be made available to the investors 145[in the manner specified by the Board].
(2) 146[The mutual fund shall provide the methodology of calculating the sale and repurchase price of units in the manner specified by the Board.]
(3)  While  determining  the  prices  of  the  units,  the  mutual  fund  shall  ensure  that  the repurchase price is not lower than 93 per cent of the Net Asset Value and the sale price is not higher than 107 per cent of the Net Asset Value: 147[Provided that the repurchase price of the units of close ended scheme launched prior to  the  commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual  Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009 shall not  be lower than ninety five per cent  of the Net Asset Value:] Provided further that the difference between the repurchase price and the sale price of the unit shall not exceed 7 per cent calculated on the sale price: 148[***] 149[(3A) Where a mutual fund repurchases units in a close ended scheme 150[launched prior to  the  commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual  Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009] which fulfils the conditions mentioned in sub-regulation (3B),  it  shall  deduct  an  amount  representing  proportionate  initial  issue  expenses  or  part thereof remaining unamortized, from the repurchase proceeds. unamortised” refers to such proportion of the expenses of the scheme as are attributable to the units being repurchased. 151[(3B) The conditions referred to in sub-regulation (3A) are the following: (a)  the  scheme  is  launched  after  the  commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds)(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006 and prior to the scheme is launched after commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (a) (b) initial issue expenses in respect of the scheme have been charged or are proposed to be commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual  Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008; (b) initial issue expenses in respect of the scheme are accounted in the books of accounts of the scheme in accordance with Tenth Schedule.] (3C) The amount recovered under sub-regulation (3A) shall be credited to the unamortized initial issue expenses of the scheme.]
(4) The price of units shall be determined with reference to the last determined Net Asset Value as mentioned in sub-regulation (3) unless,— (a)  the scheme announces the Net Asset Value on a daily basis; and 152[(b)  the sale price is determined with or without a fixed premium added to the future net asset value which is declared in advance.] 153 [CHAPTER VIA REAL ESTATE MUTUAL FUND SCHEMES Definitions
49A. For the purposes of this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires- (a) “real estate asset” means an identifiable immovable property- (i) which is located within India in such city as may be specified by the Board from time to time or in a special economic zone within the meaning of clause (za) of section 2 of the Special Economic Zones Act, 2005 (28 of 2005); (ii) on which construction is complete and which is usable; (iii) which is evidenced by valid title documents; (iv) which is legally transferable; (v) which is free from all encumbrances; (vi) which is not subject matter of any litigation; but does not include- I. a project under construction; or 4 II. vacant land; or III. deserted property; or IV. land specified for agricultural use; or V. a property which is reserved or attached by any Government or other authority or pursuant  to  orders  of  a  court  of  law  or  the  acquisition  of  which  is  otherwise prohibited under any law for the time being in force; (b)  “real  estate  valuer”  means  a  qualified  valuer  of  real  estate  assets  who  has  been accredited by a credit rating agency registered with the Board. “the sale price is determined by adding to the future Net Asset Value a fixed premium which is declared in advance. Applicability
49B. (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to real estate mutual fund schemes.
(2) Unless the context otherwise requires, all other provisions of these regulations and the guidelines and circulars issues thereunder shall apply to real estate mutual fund schemes, and trustees and asset management companies in relation to such schemes, except where specific provisions are made in relation thereto under this Chapter. Additional eligibility criteria
49C. (1) A Certificate of registration may be granted under regulation 9 to an  applicant proposing to launch only real estate mutual fund schemes if he;- (a) has been carrying on business in real estate for a period of not less than five years; (b) fulfills eligibility criteria provided in regulation 7, except that specified in item (i)
(2) A real estate mutual fund scheme of a mutual fund registered under subregulation (1) shall not  invest in  the securities mentioned in sub-clauses (ii) to  (iii) of  clause (a) or in clause  (b)  of  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  49E  unless  it  has  key  personnel  having adequate professional experience in finance and financial services related field.
(3)  An  existing  mutual  fund  may  launch  a  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  if  it  has  an adequate number of key personnel and directors having adequate experience in real estate. Other conditions for real estate mutual fund schemes
49D. (1) Every real estate mutual fund scheme shall be close-ended and its units shall be listed on a recognized stock exchange: Provided  that  the  redemption  of  a  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  may  be  done  in  a staggered manner.
(2) The units issued by a real estate mutual fund scheme shall not confer any right on the unit  holders  to  use  the  real  estate  assets  held  by  the  scheme  and  any  provision  to  the contrary in the trust deed or in the terms of issue shall be void.
(3) The title deeds pertaining to real estate assets held by a real estate mutual fund scheme shall be kept in safe custody with the custodian of the mutual fund.
(4)  A  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  shall  not  undertake  lending  or  housing  finance activities.
(5) All financial transactions of a real estate mutual fund scheme shall be routed through banking channels and they shall not be cash or unaccounted transactions. Permissible investments
49E. (1) Every real state mutual fund scheme shall invest at least thirty five per cent. of the net assets of the scheme directly in real estate assets.
(2) Subject to sub-regulation (1), every real estate mutual fund scheme shall invest- (a) at least seventy five per cent. of the net assets of the scheme in- (i) real estate assets; (ii) mortgage backed securities (but not directly in mortgages); (iii)  equity  shares  or  debentures  of  companies  engaged  in  dealing  in  real  estate assets or in undertaking real estate development projects, whether listed on a recognized stock exchange in India or not; (b) the balance in other securities;
(3) Unless otherwise disclosed in the offer document, no mutual fund shall, under all its real estate mutual fund schemes, invest more than thirty per cent. of its net assets in a single city.
(4) No mutual fund shall, under all its real estate mutual fund schemes, invest more than fifteen per cent. of its net assets in the real estate assets of any single real estate project. by a builder in a single location within a city.
(5) No mutual fund shall, under all its real estate mutual fund schemes, invest more than twenty five per cent. of the total issued capital of any unlisted company.
(6) No mutual fund shall invest more than fifteen per cent of the net assets of any of its real estate mutual fund schemes in the equity shares or debentures of any unlisted company.
(7) No real estate mutual fund scheme shall invest in – (a) any unlisted security of the sponsor or its associate or group company; (b)  any  listed  security  issued  by  way  of  preferential  allotment  by  the  sponsor  or  its associate or group company; (c)  any  listed  security  of  the  sponsor  or  its  associate  or  group  company,  in  excess  of twenty five per cent of the net assets of the scheme.
(8) No mutual fund shall transfer real estate assets amongst its schemes.
(9) No mutual fund shall invest in any real estate asset which was owned by the sponsor or the asset management company or any of its associates during the period of last five years or in which the sponsor or the asset management company or any of its associates hold tenancy or lease rights. Valuation of real estates assets and declaration of net asset value
49F. (1) The real estate assets held by a real estate mutual fund scheme shall be valued – (a) at cost price on the date of acquisition; and (b) at fair price on every ninetieth day from the day of its purchase in accordance with the norms specified in Schedule IXB.
(2) The asset management  company, its directors, the trustees and the real  estate valuer shall ensure that the valuation of assets held by a real estate mutual fund scheme are done in  good  faith,  in  accordance  with  the  norms  specified  in  Schedule  IX  B  and  that  the accounts of the scheme are prepared in accordance with accounting principles specified in Schedule XI.
(3)  The  net  asset  value  of  every  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  shall  be  calculated  and declared at the close of each business day on the basis of the most current valuation of the real estate assets held by the scheme and accrued income thereon, if any. Duties of asset management company
49G.  (1)  Without  prejudice  to  the  provisions  of  regulation  21,  the  asset  management company of a mutual fund having real estate mutual fund schemes shall appoint suitable number of qualified key personnel with relevant experience, before undertaking investment management of real estate assets of a real estate mutual fund scheme.
(2) The asset management company may appoint advisors to advise it on acquisitions or proposed acquisitions of real estate assets.
(3) The asset management company shall exercise due care while appointing real estate valuers for valuing the real estate assets held by the real estate mutual fund scheme and shall ensure that there is no conflict of interest.
(4) The asset management company shall lay down an adequate system of internal controls and risk management.
(5) The asset management company shall put in place systems to ensure that all financial transactions  are  done  through  banking  channels  and  exclude  transactions  in  cash  or unaccounted transactions.
(6)  The  asset  management  company  shall  exercise  due  diligence  in  maintenance  of  the assets  of  a  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme  and  shall  ensure  that  there  is  no  avoidable deterioration in their value.
(7) The asset management company shall ensure that the real estate assets held by a real estate mutual fund scheme are adequately insured against impair, damage or destruction.
(8) The asset management company shall ensure that the cost of maintenance and insurance of real estate assets is within reasonable limits and that no funds of the scheme are utilized towards development of such assets.
(9)  The  asset  management  company  shall  ensure  that  a  real  estate  valuer  certifies compliance with sub-regulation (8) on an annual basis.
(10) The asset management company shall ensure that no real estate valuer continues with valuation  of particular real  estate asset for more than two  years and that no such valuer values the same asset for a period of at least three years thereafter.
(11)  The  asset  management  company  shall  record  in  writing,  the  details  of  its  decision making process in buying or selling real estate assets together with the justifications for such decisions and forward the same periodically to trustees.
(12) The asset management company shall ensure that investment of funds of the real estate mutual fund scheme is not made contrary to provisions of this chapter and the trust deed.
154[(13)  The  asset  management  company  shall  obtain,  wherever  required  under  these regulations, prior in-principle approval from the recognized stock exchange(s) where units are proposed to be listed.] Usage of real estate assets of a real estate mutual fund scheme
49H. (1) The asset management company may let out or lease out the real estate assets held by the real estate mutual fund scheme if the term of such lease or letting does not extend beyond the period of maturity of the scheme.
(2) Where real estate assets are let out or leased out, the asset management company shall diligently collect the rents or other income in a timely manner.
(3) Real estate assets held by a real estate mutual fund scheme may be let out to the sponsor, asset  management  company  or  any  of  their  associates,  at  market  price  or  otherwise  on commercial terms: Provided that not more than 25% of the total rental income of the scheme shall be derived from assets so let out. Duties of trustees
49I. (1) The trustees shall ensure that the asset management company has the necessary expertise,  internal  control  systems  and  risk  management  mechanism  to  invest  in  and manage investments in real estate assets on a continuous basis.
(2) The trustees shall monitor whether due diligence is exercised by the asset management company in managing the investments.
(3)  The  trustees  shall  review  the  market  price  of  the  units  during  the  year  and  shall recommend proportionate buy back of units from  unit holders, if the units are traded at steep discount to the net asset value.
(4)  The  magnitude  of  discount  which  shall  amount  to  steep  discount  referred  to  in  sub- regulation (3) shall be disclosed in the offer document.
(5)  The  trustees  shall  ensure  that  only  permissible  investments  are  made  by  the  asset management company.
(6) The trustees shall ensure that all financial transactions of the real estate mutual fund scheme  are  made  only  through  banking  channels  and  that  systems  exist  to  exclude transactions in cash and unaccounted transactions.
(7) The trustees shall lay down the criteria for empanelment of real estate brokers.
(8)  The  trustees  shall  lay  down  the  broad  procedure  to  be  followed  by  the  assert management company while transacting in real estate assets.
(9) The trustees shall require the asset management company to set up such systems and submit such reports to trustees, as may be necessary for them to effectively monitor the performance and functioning of the real estate mutual fund schemes.
(10)  The  trustees  shall  include  a  confirmation  on  compliance  with  sub  regulation  (9)  in their half yearly reports made to the Board.
155[(11)  The  trustees  shall  obtain,  wherever  required  under  these  regulations,  prior  in- principle approval from the recognised stock exchange(s) where units are proposed to be listed.] Disclosures in offer document and other disclosures
49J. (1) The offer documents of real estate mutual fund schemes shall contain disclosures which are adequate for investors to make informed investment decisions and such further disclosures as may be specified by the Board.
(2) The portfolio disclosures and financial results in respect of a real estate mutual fund scheme shall contain such further disclosures as are specified by the Board.
(3) Advertisements  in  respect  of  real  estate mutual  fund schemes shall  conform  to  such guidelines as may be specified by the Board. Transactions by employees etc.
49K. (1) All transactions done by the trustees or the employees or directors of the asset management company or the trustee company in real  estate assets  shall be disclosed by them to the compliance officer within one month of the transaction.
(2)  The  compliance  officer  shall  make  a  report  thereon  from  the  view  point  of  possible conflict of interest and shall submit it to the trustees with his recommendations, if any.
(3) The persons covered in sub-regulation (1) may obtain the views of the trustees before entering into the transaction in real estate assets, by making a suitable request to them.] 156[CHAPTER VI -B INFRASTRUCTURE DEBT FUND SCHEMES Definitions.
49L. For the purposes of this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires-
(1)  “Infrastructure debt fund scheme” means a mutual fund scheme that invests primarily (minimum 90% of scheme assets) in the debt securities or securitized debt instrument of infrastructure companies or infrastructure capital  companies or infrastructure projects or special  purpose  vehicles  which  are  created  for  the  purpose  of  facilitating  or  promoting investment  in  infrastructure,  and  other  permissible  assets  in  accordance  with  these regulations  or  bank  loans  in  respect  of  completed  and  revenue  generating  projects  of infrastructure companies or projects or special purpose vehicles.
(2)  “Infrastructure” includes the sectors as specified by guidelines issued by the Board or as notified by Ministry of Finance, from time to time.
(3) ‘Strategic Investor’ means; (i)  an  Infrastructure  Finance  Company  registered  with  Reserve  bank  of  India  as Non Banking Financial Company; (ii) a Scheduled Commercial Bank; (iii) International Multilateral Financial Institution; 157[(iv) Systemically Important Non Banking Financial Companies registered with Reserve Bank of India; (v)  Foreign  Institutional  Investors  registered  with  the  Board,  subject  to  their applicable investment limits, which are long term investors in terms of   the norms specified by SEBI.] Applicability.
49M.  (1)The  provisions  of  this  chapter  shall  apply  to  infrastructure  debt  fund  schemes launched by mutual funds.
(2)  All  other  provisions  of  these  regulations  and  the  guidelines  and  circulars  issued thereunder,  unless  the  context  otherwise  require  or  repugnant  to  the  provisions  of  this chapter, shall apply to infrastructure debt  fund schemes, trustees  and  asset management companies in relation to such schemes. Eligibility criteria for launching infrastructure debt fund scheme
49N. (1) An existing mutual fund may launch an infrastructure debt fund schemes if it has an adequate number of key personnel having adequate experience in infrastructure sector.
(2) A certificate of registration may be granted under regulation 9 to an applicant proposing to launch only infrastructure debt fund schemes if the sponsor or the parent company of the sponsor: - (a)  has been carrying on activities or business  in infrastructure financing sector for a period of not less than five years; (b) fulfills eligibility criteria provided in Regulation 7. sponsor’ shall mean a company which holds at least 75% of paid up equity share capital of the sponsor. 158[Offering period.
49NA. No scheme of an infrastructure debt fund, in the case of a public offer,  shall be open for subscription  for more than forty five days.] Conditions for infrastructure debt fund schemes.
49O.  (1)    An  infrastructure  debt  fund  scheme  shall  be  launched  either  as  close-ended scheme maturing after more than five years or interval scheme with lock-in of five years and 159[specified transaction period of not more than forty five days] as may be specified in the scheme information document160[:] 161[Provided that the tenure of the scheme may be extended to two years subject to approval of two-thirds of the unitholders by value of their investment in the scheme.]
(2) Units  of  infrastructure  debt  fund  schemes  shall  be  listed  on  a  recognized  stock exchange, provided that such units shall be listed only after being fully paid up.
(3) Mutual Funds may disclose indicative portfolio of infrastructure debt fund scheme to its potential investors disclosing the type of assets the mutual fund will be investing.
(4) An infrastructure debt fund scheme shall have minimum five investors and no single investor shall hold more than fifty percent of net assets of the scheme.
(5) No  infrastructure  debt  fund  scheme  shall  accept  any  investment  from  any  investor which is less than Rupees one crore.
(6) The minimum size of the unit shall be Rupees ten lakhs.
(7) Each scheme launched as infrastructure debt fund scheme shall have firm commitment from the strategic investors for contribution of an amount of at least Rupees twenty five crores  before  the  allotment  of  units  of  the  scheme  are  marketed  to  other  potential investors.
(8)  Mutual Funds launching infrastructure debt fund scheme may issue partly paid units to the investors, subject to following conditions: (a)  The  asset  management  company  shall  call  for  the  unpaid  portions depending upon the deployment opportunities; (b)  The  offer  document  of  the  scheme  shall  disclose  the  interest  or  penalty which  may  be  deducted  in  case  of  non  payment  of  call  money  by  the investors within stipulated time; and (c)  The amount of interest or penalty shall be retained in the scheme. 162[Private Placement.
49-OA. (1) The units of an infrastructure debt fund scheme may be offered through private placement to less than fifty persons, subject to approval by the trustees and the board of the asset management company.
(2) The offer made under sub-regulation (1), shall be subject to the following: (a) A placement memorandum, in the manner as specified by the Board,  shall be filed by the mutual fund with the Board at least seven days prior to the launch of the scheme; and (b)  the  mutual  fund  shall  pay  to  the  Board,  filing  fee  as  specified  in  the  Second Schedule.] Permissible investments.
49P. (1) Every infrastructure debt fund scheme shall invest at least ninety percent of the net  assets  of  the  scheme  in  the  debt  securities  or  securitized  debt  instruments  of infrastructure companies or projects or special purpose vehicles which are created for the purpose of facilitating or promoting investment in infrastructure or bank loans in respect of  completed  and  revenue  generating  projects  of  infrastructure  companies  or  special purpose vehicle 163[:] 164[Provided that the funds received on account of re-payment of principal, whether by way of pre-payment or otherwise, with respect to the underlying assets of the scheme, shall be invested as specified in this sub-regulation: Provided further that if the investments specified in this sub-regulation are not available, such  funds  may  be  invested  in  bonds  of  Public  Financial  Institutions  and  Infrastructure Finance Companies.]
(2) Subject  to  sub-regulation (1), every infrastructure debt  fund scheme may   invest the balance amount in equity shares, convertibles including mezzanine financing instruments of  companies  engaged  in  infrastructure,  infrastructure    development  projects,  whether listed on a recognized stock exchange in India or not; or money market instruments and bank deposits.
(3) The investment  restrictions shall be applicable on the life-cycle of the infrastructure debt fund scheme and shall be reckoned with reference to the total amount raised by the infrastructure debt fund scheme.
(4) No mutual fund shall, under all its infrastructure debt fund schemes, invest more than thirty per cent of its net assets in the debt securities or assets of any single infrastructure company  or  project  or  special  purpose  vehicles  which  are  created  for  the  purpose  of facilitating or promoting investment in infrastructure or bank loans in respect of completed and revenue generating projects of any single infrastructure company or project or special purpose vehicle.
(5) An infrastructure debt scheme shall not invest more than 30% of the net assets of the scheme  in  debt  instruments  or  assets  of  any  single  infrastructure  company  or  project  or special  purpose  vehicles  which  are  created  for  the  purpose  of  facilitating  or  promoting investment in infrastructure or bank loans in respect of completed and revenue generating projects of any single infrastructure company or project or special purpose vehicle165[.] 166[***] 167[(5A) The overall investments by an infrastructure debt fund scheme in debt instruments or  assets  of  infrastructure  companies  or  projects  or  special  purpose  vehicles,  which  are created for the purpose  of facilitating or promoting investment  in  infrastructure or bank loans in respect of completed and revenue generating projects of infrastructure companies or  projects  or  special  purpose  vehicles,  which  are  rated  below  investment  grade  or  are unrated, shall not exceed 30% of the net assets of the scheme: Provided that the overall investment limit may increase up to 50% of the net assets of the scheme  with  the  prior  approval  of  the  trustees  and  the  board  of  the  asset  management company.]
(6)  No infrastructure debt fund scheme shall invest in – (i) Any unlisted security of the sponsor or its associate or group company; (ii) Any listed security issued by way of preferential  allotment  by the sponsor or its associate or group company; (iii) Any listed security of the sponsor or its associate or group company or bank loan in respect of completed and revenue generating projects of infrastructure companies or special purpose vehicles of the sponsor or its associate or group companies, in excess of twenty five per cent of the net assets of the scheme, subject to approval of  trustees  and  full  disclosures  to  investors  for  investments  made  within  the aforesaid limits; or 168[(iv)  any asset or securities owned by the sponsor or asset management company or their associates in excess of 30% of the net assets of the scheme, provided that- (a) such investment is in assets or securities not below investment grade; (b)  the  sponsor  or  its  associates  retains  atleast  30%  of  the  assets  or securities,  in  which  investment  is  made  by  the  scheme,  till  the  assets  or securities are held in the scheme portfolio; and (c)  approval  for  such  investment  is  granted  by  the  trustees  and  full disclosures are made to the investors regarding such investment.] Valuation of assets and declaration of net asset value.
49Q. (1) The assets held by an infrastructure debt fund scheme shall be valued “in good faith” by the asset management  company on the  basis of appropriate valuation methods based on principles approved by the trustees.
(2) The valuation shall be documented and the supporting data in respect of each security so valued shall be preserved at least for a period of five years after the expiry of the scheme.
(3) The methods used to arrive at values ‘in good faith’ shall be periodically reviewed by the Trustees and by the statutory auditor of the mutual fund.
(4) The valuation  policy  approved by the board of  asset management company  shall be disclosed in the scheme information document.
(5) The net asset value of every infrastructure debt fund scheme shall be calculated and declared atleast once in each quarter. Duties of asset management company.
49R. (1) The asset management company shall lay down an adequate system of internal controls and risk management. substitution, clause (iv) read as follows: "Any asset or securities owned by the sponsor or asset management company or its associates, in excess of 20%  of  the  net  assets  of  the  scheme  not  below  investment  grade,  subject  to  approval  of  trustees  and  full disclosures to investors for investments made within the aforesaid limits."
(2) The  asset  management  company  shall  exercise  due  diligence  in  maintenance  of  the assets  of  an  infrastructure  debt  fund  scheme  and  shall  ensure  that  there  is  no  avoidable deterioration in their value.
(3) The  asset  management  company  shall  record  in  writing,  the  details  of  its  decision making  process  in  buying  or  selling  infrastructure  companies’  assets  together  with  the justifications for such decisions and forward the same periodically to trustees.
(4) The  asset  management  company  shall  ensure  that  investment  of  funds  of  the Infrastructure Debt Fund schemes is not made contrary to provisions of this chapter and the trust deed.
(5) The  asset  management  company  shall  obtain,  wherever  required  under  these regulations, prior in-principle approval from the recognized stock exchange(s) where units are proposed to be listed.
(6) The  asset  management  company  shall  institute  such  mechanisms  as  to  ensure  that proper  care  is  taken  for  collection,  monitoring  and  supervision  of  the  debt  assets  by appointing a service provider having extensive experience thereof, if required. Disclosures in offer document and other disclosures.
49S. (1) The offer documents of infrastructure debt fund schemes shall contain disclosures which are adequate for investors to make informed investment decisions and such further disclosures as may be specified by the Board.
(2) The portfolio disclosures and financial results in respect of an infrastructure debt fund schemes shall contain such further disclosures as may be specified by the Board.
(3)  Advertisements in respect of infrastructure debt fund schemes shall conform to such guidelines as may be specified by the Board. Transactions by employees etc.
49T. (1) All transactions done by the trustees or the employees or directors of the asset management company or the trustee company in the investee companies shall be disclosed by them to the compliance officer within one month of the transaction.
(2) The  compliance  officer  shall  make  a  report  thereon  from  the  view  point  of  possible conflict of interest and shall submit it to the trustees with his recommendations, if any.
(3) The persons covered in sub-regulation (1) may obtain the views of the trustees before entering into the transaction in investee companies, by making a suitable request to them.] CHAPTER VII GENERAL OBLIGATIONS To maintain proper books of account and records, etc.
50. (1) Every asset management company for each scheme shall keep and maintain proper books of account, records and documents, for each scheme so as to explain its transactions and to disclose at any point of time the financial position of each scheme and in particular give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the fund and intimate to the Board the place where such books of account, records and documents are maintained.
(2) Every asset management company shall maintain and preserve for a period of 169[eight] years its books of account, records and documents.
(3) The asset management company shall follow the accounting policies and standards as specified  in  Ninth  Schedule  so  as  to  provide  appropriate  details  of  the  schemewise disposition of the assets of the fund at the relevant accounting date and the performance during  that  period  together  with  information  regarding  distribution  or  accumulation  of income accruing to the unitholder in a fair and true manner. Financial year
51. The financial year for all the schemes shall end as of March 31st of each year; Provided that, for a new scheme commenced during a financial year, the disclosure and reporting requirements would apply for the period beginning from the date of its commencement and ending on March 31st of 170[that financial] year. 171[Credit of exit load to scheme.
51A. The exit load charged, if any, after the commencement of the SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2012, shall be credited to the scheme.] Limitation on fees and expenses on issue of schemes
52.  (1)  All  expenses  should  be  clearly  identified  and  appropriated  in  the  individual schemes.
172[(2)  The  asset  management  company  may  charge  the  scheme  with  investment  and advisory fees which shall be fully disclosed in the offer document.] (i) One and a quarter of one per cent of the weekly average net assets outstanding in each accounting (ii) One per cent of the excess amount over Rs.100 crores, where net assets so calculated exceed
(3) 173[***]
(4) In addition to the fees mentioned in sub-regulation (2), the asset management company may charge the 174[scheme] with the following expenses, namely:— (a) 175[***] (b)  recurring expenses including:— (i)  marketing and selling expenses including agents’ commission, if any ; (ii)  brokerage and transaction cost ; (iii)  registrar services for transfer of units sold or redeemed ; (iv)  fees and expenses of trustees ; (v)  audit fees ; (vi)  custodian fees ; 176[(vii) costs related to investor communication ; (viii) costs of fund transfer from location to location ; (ix)  costs  of  providing  account  statements  and  dividend/redemption  cheques  and warrants ; (x)  insurance premium paid by the fund ; (xi)  winding up costs for terminating a fund or a scheme ; (xii) costs of statutory advertisements ;]  177[***] 178[(xiia)  in  case  of  a  gold  exchange  traded  fund  scheme,  recurring  expenses  incurred towards storage and handling of gold; 179[***]] 180[(xiib) in case of a capital oriented scheme, rating fees; 181[***]] 182[(xiic)  in  case  of  a  real  estate  mutual  fund  scheme,  insurance  premia  and  costs  of maintenance  of  the  real  estate  assets  (excluding  costs  of  development  of  such assets)  over  and  above  the  expenses  specified  in  regulation  52  to  the  extent disclosed in the offer document;] 183[(xiid) listing fees, in case of schemes listed on a recognised stock exchange; and] 184[(xiie) in case of schemes investing in exchange traded commodity derivatives, recurring expenses incurred towards storage and handling of the underlying goods, due to physical settlement of such contracts.] 185[(xiii)] such other costs as may be approved by the Board.
(5) Any expense other than those specified in sub-regulations (2) and (4) shall be borne by the asset management company 186[or trustee or sponsors]. 187[***] 188[(5A) In case of a scheme other than an index fund scheme or an exchange traded fund, where,  as  per  the  scheme  information  document,  the  scheme  will  invest  a  minimum  of sixty-five per cent of its net assets in equity and equity related instruments, the scheme will be considered as equity oriented scheme for the purpose of limits of total expense ratio as specified in these regulations.]
189[(6)  The  total  expense  ratio  of  the  scheme  excluding  issue  or  redemption  expenses, whether  initially  borne  by  the  mutual  fund  or  by  the  asset  management  company,  but “*[(xii-b) in case of a real estate mutual fund scheme, insurance premia and costs of maintenance of the real estate  assets  (excluding  costs  of  development  of  such  assets)  over  and  above  the  expenses  specified  in regulation 52 to the extent disclosed in the offer document; and]” 185 Sub-clause (vii) renumbered as sub-clause (xiii) by the SEBI (Mutual Funds) to this substitution, the regulation read as:
“(6) The total expenses of the scheme excluding issue or redemption expenses, whether initially borne by the mutual fund or by the asset management company, but including the investment management and advisory fee shall be subject to the following limits:— (a) in case of a fund of funds scheme, the total expenses of the scheme including weighted average of charges  levied by  the  underlying  schemes  shall  not exceed 2.50 per cent of the daily net assets of the scheme. (b) in case of an index fund scheme or exchange traded fund, the total expenses of the scheme including the investment and advisory fees shall not exceed one and one half percent (1.5%) of the daily net assets; (c) in case of any other scheme- including the investment management and advisory fee shall be subject to the following limits:— (a) in case of fund of funds scheme - (i) investing in liquid schemes, index fund scheme and exchange traded funds, the total expense ratio of the scheme including weighted average of the total expense ratio levied by the underlying scheme(s) shall not exceed 1.00 per cent of the daily net assets of the scheme. (ii) investing a minimum of sixty-five per cent of assets under management in equity oriented schemes as per scheme information document, the total expense ratio of the scheme including weighted  average  of the  total  expense ratio levied by  the underlying scheme(s) shall not exceed 2.25 per cent of the daily net assets of the scheme. (iii) investing in schemes other than as specified in clause (a)(i) and (a)(ii) of this sub- regulation, the total  expense ratio of the scheme including weighted average of the total expense ratio levied by the underlying scheme(s) shall not exceed 2.00 per cent of the daily net assets of the scheme: Provided that the total expense ratio to be charged over and above the weighted average of the total expense ratio of the underlying scheme shall not exceed two times  the  weighted  average  of  the  total  expense  ratio  levied  by  the  underlying scheme(s), subject to the overall ceilings as stated at clause a(i), a(ii) and a(iii). (i) on the first Rs.100 crores of the daily net assets 2.5%; (ii) on the next Rs.300 crores of the daily net assets 2.25%; (iii) on the next Rs.300 crores of the daily net assets 2.0%; (iv) on the balance of the assets 1.75%: Provided that in respect of a scheme investing in bonds such recurring expenses shall be lesser by at least 0.25% of the daily net assets outstanding in each financial year.” (b) in case of an index fund scheme or exchange traded fund, the total expense ratio of the scheme including the investment and advisory fees shall not exceed 1.00 per cent of the daily net assets. (c) in case of open ended schemes other than as specified in clause (a) and (b) above, the total expense ratio of the scheme shall not exceed the following limits: Assets management (In Rs. crore) under Slab on  the  first  Rs.500 crores  of  the  daily net assets on  the  next  Rs.250 crores  of  the  daily net assets on the next Rs.1,250 crores  of  the  daily net assets on the next Rs.3,000 crores  of  the  daily net assets on the next Rs.5,000 crores  of  the  daily net assets expense Total limits oriented schemes for ratio equity expense Total limits  for  other equity schemes ratio than oriented
2.25%
2.00%
2.00%
1.75%
1.75%
1.50%
1.60%
1.35%
1.50%
1.25% the On next Rs.40,000  crores  of the daily net assets Total  expense  ratio  reduction  of  0.05%  for  every increase  of  Rs.5,000  crores  of  daily  net  assets  or part thereof. On  balance  of  the assets
1.05%
0.80% (d) in case of close ended and interval schemes, (i) the total  expense ratio of equity oriented scheme(s) shall not  exceed  1.25 per cent of the daily net assets of the scheme. (ii) the total expense ratio of close ended and interval scheme(s) other than schemes specified  in  clause  d  (i)  above  shall  not  exceed  1.00  per  cent  of  the  daily  net assets of the scheme.] 190[(6A)  In  addition  to  the  limits  specified  in  sub-regulation  (6),  the  following  costs  or expenses may be charged to the scheme, namely- (a) brokerage and transaction costs which are incurred for the purpose of execution of trade and is included in the cost of investment, not exceeding 0.12 per cent in case of cash market transactions and 0.05 per cent in case of derivatives transactions; (b) expenses not exceeding of 0.30 per cent of daily net assets,  if the new inflows from such cities as specified by the Board from time to time are at least - Provided  further  that  expenses  charged  under  this  clause  shall  be  utilised  for (i) 30 per cent of gross new inflows in the scheme, or; (ii) 15 per cent of the average assets under management (year to date) of the scheme, whichever is higher: Provided that if inflows from such cities is less than the higher of sub-clause (i) or sub-  clause  (ii),  such  expenses  on  daily  net  assets  of  the  scheme  shall  be  charged  on proportionate basis: distribution expenses incurred for bringing inflows from such cities: Provided further that amount incurred as expense on account of inflows from such cities shall be credited back to the scheme in case the said inflows are redeemed within a period of one year from the date of investment; (c) additional expenses, incurred towards different heads mentioned under sub-regulations
(2)  and  (4),  not  exceeding  191[0.05]  per  cent  of  daily  net  assets  of  the  scheme  192[or  as specified by the Board:] ] 193[Provided that such additional expenses shall not be charged to the schemes where the exit load is not levied or applicable.]
(7) Any expenditure in excess of the limits specified in  194[sub-regulations (6) and (6A)] shall be borne by the asset management company 195[or by the trustee or sponsors].
(8) The provisions of sub-regulations (3), (4), (5) and (6) will come into effect 196[from 1st April,  1997]  for  those  schemes  of  mutual  funds  which  have  been  launched  prior  to notification of these regulations. 197[Declaration of dividends
52A.  A  mutual  fund  may  declare  dividends  in  accordance  with  the  offer  document  and subject to such Guidelines as may be specified by the Board.] Despatch of warrants and proceeds
53. Every mutual fund and asset management company shall, (a)  despatch to the unitholders the dividend warrants within 198[30] days of the declaration of the dividend; (b)  despatch the redemption or repurchase proceeds within 10 working days from the date of redemption or repurchase; 199[(c)  in the event of failure to despatch the redemption or repurchase proceeds within the period specified in sub-clause (b), the asset management company shall be liable to pay interest to the unitholders at such rate as may be specified by the Board for the period of such delay; (d) notwithstanding  payment  of  such  interest  to  the  unit-holders  under  sub- clause (c), the asset management company may be liable for penalty for failure to despatch the redemption or repurchase proceeds within the stipulated time.] Annual Report
54. Every mutual fund or the asset management company shall prepare in respect of each financial year an annual report and annual statement of accounts of the schemes and the fund as specified in Eleventh Schedule. Auditor’s report
55. (1) Every mutual fund shall have the annual statement of accounts audited by an auditor who is not in any way associated with the auditor of the asset management company. person  who  is  qualified  to  audit  the  accounts  of  a  company  under  section  224  of  the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).
(2) An auditor shall be appointed by the trustees.
(3) The auditor shall forward his report to the trustees and such report shall form part of the Annual Report of the mutual fund.
(4) The auditor’s report shall comprise the following:— (a)  a certificate to the effect that,— (i)  he  has  obtained  all  information  and  explanations  which,  to  the  best  of  his knowledge and belief, were necessary for the purpose of the audit ; (ii)  the balance sheet and the revenue account give a fair and true view of the scheme, state of affairs and surplus or deficit in the Fund for the accounting period  to which the Balance Sheet or, as the case may be, the Revenue Account relates ; (iii)  the  statement  of  account  has  been  prepared  in  accordance  with  accounting policies and standards as specified in the Ninth Schedule. ‘42’. 200[Providing copies of Annual report and summary thereof]
56. (1) The scheme wise Annual Report of a mutual fund or an abridged summary thereof 201[***] shall be 202[provided] to all unitholders as soon as may be but not later than 203[four months] from the date of closure of the relevant accounts year 204[in the manner specified by the Board]. 205[]
(2) The Annual Report and abridged summary thereof shall contain details as specified in the Eleventh Schedule and such other details as are necessary for the purpose of providing a true and fair view of the operations of the mutual fund: 206[Provided that the abridged scheme wise Annual Report 207[provided] to the unitholders is in the format prescribed by the Board in this regard.]
208[(3)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  the  mutual  fund  shall provide physical copy of the abridged summary of the Annual Report without any cost, if a request through any mode is received from a unitholder.] 209[(3A)] The report 210[211[provided] in abridged summary form as per sub-regulation (1)] shall carry a note that 212[for unitholders of a scheme] full Annual Report shall be available for  inspection  at  the  Head  Office  of  the  mutual  fund  and  a  copy  thereof  shall  be  made available to unitholder on payment of such nominal fees as may be specified by the mutual fund.
213[(4) The asset management company shall display the link of the full scheme wise annual reports prominently on their website.] Annual Report to be forwarded to the Board
57. Every mutual fund  214[***] shall within  215[four months] from the date of closure of each financial year forward to the Board a copy of the Annual Report and other information including  details  of  investments  and  deposits  held  by  the  mutual  fund  so  that  the  entire schemewise portfolio of the mutual funds is disclosed to the Board. Periodic and continual disclosures
58. (1) The mutual fund, the asset management company, the trustee, custodian, sponsor of the mutual fund shall make such disclosures or submit such documents as they may be called upon to do so by the Board.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the mutual fund 216[***] shall furnish the following periodic reports to the Board, namely:— (a)  copies of the duly audited annual statements of accounts including the balance sheet and the profit and loss account for the fund and in respect of each scheme, once a year; (b)  a copy of six monthly unaudited accounts ; (c)  a quarterly statement of movements in the net assets for each of the schemes of the fund; (d)  a quarterly portfolio statement, including changes from the previous periods, for each scheme.
(3) No sale of units of any scheme of a mutual fund shall be made by the trustees or an asset management company unless accompanied by documents which contain information which is adequate for the investors to take an informed decision. 217[Half-yearly Disclosures
59. (1) A mutual fund and asset management company shall within one month from the close of each half year, that is on 31st March and on 30th September, host a soft copy of its unaudited financial results on their website: Provided that the half-yearly unaudited report referred to in this sub-regulation shall contain details as specified in Twelfth Schedule and such other details as are necessary for the purpose of providing a true and fair view of the operations of the mutual fund.
(2)  A  mutual  fund  and  asset  management  company,  shall  publish  an  advertisement disclosing the hosting of such financial results on their website, in atleast one English daily newspaper  having  nationwide  circulation  and  in  a  newspaper  having  wide  circulation published  in  the  language  of  the  region  where  the  Head  Office  of  the  mutual  fund  is situated.] Statement of Portfolio
218[59A. A mutual fund shall before the expiry of 219[ten days] from the close of each half- year (i.e., 31st March and 30th September), send to all unitholders a complete statement of its scheme portfolio220[, in the manner specified by the Board]. 221[ ] Disclosures to the investors
60. The trustee shall be bound to make such disclosures to the unitholders as are essential in order to keep them informed about any information which may have an adverse bearing on their investments. CHAPTER VIII INSPECTION AND AUDIT Board’s right to inspect and investigate
61. (1) The Board may appoint one or more persons as inspecting officer to undertake the inspection  of  the  books  of  account,  records,  documents  and  infrastructure,  systems  and procedures or to investigate the affairs of a mutual fund, the trustees and asset management company for any of the following purposes, namely :— (a)  to  ensure  that  the  books  of  account  are  being  maintained  by  the  mutual  fund,  the trustees and asset management company in the manner specified in these regulations; (b)  to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act and these regulations are being complied with by the mutual fund, the trustees and asset management company ; (c)  to ascertain whether the systems, procedures and safeguards followed by the mutual fund are adequate ; (d)  to  ascertain  whether  the  provisions  of  the  Act  or  any  rules  or  regulations  made thereunder have been violated ; (e)  to investigate into the complaints received from the investors or any other person on any matter having a bearing on the activities of the mutual funds, trustees and asset management company ; (f)  to suo motu ensure that the affairs of the mutual fund, trustees or asset management company are being conducted in a manner which is in the interest of the investors or the securities market. Notice before inspection and investigation
62. (1) Before ordering an inspection or investigation under regulation 61 the Board shall give not less than ten days notice to the mutual fund, asset management company or trustees as the case may be.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may, by an order in writing direct that such inspection or investigation be taken up without such notice.
(3)  During  the  course  of  inspection  or  investigation,  the  mutual  fund,  trustees  or  asset management company against whom the inspection or investigation is being carried out shall be bound to discharge his obligations as provided in regulation 63. Obligations on inspection and investigation
63. (1) It shall be the duty of the mutual fund, trustees or asset management company whose affairs  are  being  inspected  or  investigated,  and  of  every  director,  officer  and  employee thereof,  to  produce  to  the  inspecting  officer  such  books,  accounts,  records,  and  other documents  in  its  custody  or  control  and  furnish  him  such  statements  and  information relating to the activities as mutual funds, trustees or asset management company, as the inspecting officer may require, within such reasonable period as the inspecting officer may specify.
(2)  The  mutual  fund,  trustees  or  asset  management  company  shall  allow  the  inspecting officer to have a reasonable access to the premises occupied by it or by any other person on  its  behalf  and  also  extend  reasonable  facility  for  examining  any  books,  records, documents  and  computer  data  in  the  possession  of  the  mutual  fund,  trustees  and  asset management company or such other person and also provide copies of documents or other materials which in the opinion of the inspecting officer are relevant for the purpose of the inspection.
(3) The inspecting officer, in the course of inspection or investigation, shall be entitled to examine or record the statements of any director, officer, or employee of the mutual fund, trustees and asset management company.
(4)  It  shall be the duty  of every director, officer,  or employee of the mutual  fund, asset management  company  or  trustee  to  give  to  the  inspecting  officer  all  assistance  in connection  with  the  inspection  or  investigation,  which  the  inspecting  officer  may reasonably require. Submission of report to the Board
64. The inspecting officer shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection or investigation submit a report to the Board: Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he may submit an interim report. 222[Action on inspection or investigation report
65.  The  Board  or  the  Chairman  shall  after  consideration  of  inspection  or  investigation report take such action as the Board or Chairman may deem fit and appropriate including action under 223[Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008].] Appointment of auditor
66. Without prejudice to the provisions of regulation 55, the Board shall have the power to appoint an auditor to inspect or investigate, as the case may be, into the books of account or the affairs of the mutual fund, trustee or asset management company: 222  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty) Provided that the Auditor so appointed shall have the same powers of the inspecting officer as  stated  in  regulation  61  and  the  obligation  of  the  mutual  fund,  asset  management company, trustee, and their respective employees in regulation 63, shall be applicable to the investigation under this regulation. Payment of inspection fees to the Board
67. The Board shall be entitled to recover such expenses including fees paid to the auditors as may be incurred by it for the purposes of inspecting the books of account, records and documents of the mutual fund, the trustees and the asset management company. CHAPTER IX PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 224[Liability for action in case of default
68. A mutual fund which— (a)  contravenes any of the provisions of the Act and these regulations; (b)  fails to furnish any information or furnishes wrong information relating to its activity as a mutual fund as required under these regulations; (c)  fails to submit periodical returns as required under these regulations; (d)  does not co-operate in any inquiry or inspection conducted by the Board; 224  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty) (e)  fails to comply with any directions of the Board issued under the provisions of the Act or the regulations; (f)  fails to resolve the complaints of the investors or fails to give a satisfactory reply to the Board in this behalf; (g)  indulges in unfair trade practices in securities. meaning as in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 1995; (h)  is  guilty  of  misconduct  or  improper  or  unbusinesslike  or  unprofessional  conduct which is not in accordance with the Code of Conduct specified in the Fifth Schedule; (i)  asset  management  company  fails  to  maintain  the  net  worth  in  accordance  with  the provisions of regulation 21; (j)  fails to pay any fees; (k)  violates the conditions of registration; (l)  mutual  fund,  asset  management  company  or  trustees  of  that  mutual  fund  does  not carry out its obligations as specified in these regulations, shall  be  dealt  with  in  the  manner  provided  under  225[Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008].]
69. to 74. 226[***]
70. Manner of making order of cancellation or suspension No order of suspension or cancellation of certificate or the approval, as the case may be, shall be made by the  Board  against  a  mutual  fund,  trustees,  asset  management  company  except  after  holding  an  enquiry  in accordance with the procedure specified in regulation 71.
71. Manner of holding enquiry before suspension or cancellation.
(1) For the purpose of holding an enquiry, under regulation 70 the Board may appoint one or more enquiry officers.
(2) The enquiry officer shall issue to the mutual fund, asset management company or the trustee, as the case may be, at its registered office or the principal place of its business, a notice setting out the grounds on which action is proposed to be taken against it and calling upon it to show cause against such action within a period of fourteen days from the date of receipt of the notice. interest  of  unitholders and  other  mutual the its continuance is  not in is action
(3) The mutual fund, asset management company or trustee shall within fourteen days of the date of receipt of such notice, furnish to the enquiry officer a written reply, together with copies of documentary or other evidence relied on by it or sought by the Board from the mutual fund, trustees, or asset management company.
(4) The enquiry officer shall give a reasonable opportunity of hearing to the mutual fund, trustees, or asset management company, to enable it to make submissions in support of its reply made under sub-regulation
(3). (5) Before the enquiry officer, the mutual fund, trustees or asset management company may either appear in person or through any person duly authorised by the mutual fund, trustees or asset management company. Provided  that  no  lawyer  or  advocate  shall  be  permitted  to  represent  the  mutual  fund,  trustees  or  asset management company at the enquiry: Provided further that where a lawyer or an advocate has been appointed by the Board as a presenting officer under  sub-regulation  (6),  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  mutual  fund,  asset  management  company  or  trustee  to present its case through a lawyer or advocate.
(6) The  enquiry  officer  may  if  he  considers  it  necessary,  ask  the  Board  to  appoint  a  presenting  officer  to present its case.
(7) The enquiry officer shall, after taking into account all relevant facts and submissions made by the mutual fund, trustees or asset management company submit a report to the Board and recommend the action, if any, to be taken against the mutual fund, trustees or asset management company as also the grounds on which the penal justified.
72. Show cause notice and order (1) On receipt of the report from the enquiry officer, the Board shall consider the same and issue to the mutual fund, trustees or asset management company, a show-cause notice.
(2) The  mutual  fund, asset  management company or trustee, shall  within  fourteen days  of the date of the receipt of the show-cause notice, send a reply to the Board.
(3) The Board, after considering the reply of the mutual fund, trustees or asset management company, if any, shall as soon as possible pass such order as it deems fit.
(4) The Board shall send to the mutual fund, trustees, or asset management company, a copy of the order made under sub-regulation (3).
73.Effect of suspension or cancellation of certificate of registration
(1) On and from the date of the suspension of the certificate or the approval, as the case may be, the mutual fund, trustees or asset management company, shall cease to carry on any activity as a mutual fund, trustee or asset  management company, during the period of suspension, and shall be subject to the directions of the Board with regard to any records, documents, or securities that may be in its custody or control, relating to its activities as mutual fund, trustees or asset management company.
(2) On and from the date of cancellation of the certificate or the approval, as the case may be, the mutual fund, trustees or asset management company shall with immediate effect, cease to carry on any activity as mutual fund, trustees or asset management company, as the case may be.
(3) The Board may in the interest of the unit holders issue directions with regard to the transfer of any records, documents or securities that may be in its custody or control, relating to its activities as mutual fund, trustees or asset management company.
(4) The Board may in order to protect the interest of the unit holders order the transfer of records, document, securities,  etc.  to  any  person  specifically  appointed  for  the  purpose  or  to  any  other  trustee  or  asset management company. Provided that the Board shall while appointing such a person determine the terms and conditions of such an appointment.
74. Publication of order of suspension or cancellation. The order of suspension or cancellation passed under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 72, may be published by the Board in two newspaper.” Action against intermediaries
75.  The  Board  may  initiate  action  for  suspension  or  cancellation  of  registration  of  an intermediary holding a certificate of registration under section 12 of the Act who fails to exercise due diligence or to comply with the obligations under these regulations: Provided that no such certificate of registration shall be suspended or cancelled unless the procedure specified in regulations applicable to such intermediary is complied with. 227[Action against mutual fund and/or asset management company
75A. Without prejudice to regulation 68, a mutual fund and/or asset management company shall be liable for action under the applicable provisions of the Act and the Regulations framed thereunder,− (a)  in case the advertisement issued is in contravention with the Advertisement Code specified in Sixth Schedule; (b) in  case  the  valuation  of  securities  is  in  contravention  of  the  Principles  of  Fair Valuation specified in Eighth Schedule.] Adjudication, etc.
76. The Board may for the offences specified in sections 15A to 15E of the Act initiate action under section 15-I of the Act and in case of violation of any of the provisions of the Act or the regulations, initiate action under section 11, 11B or section 24 of the Act.
(2) The Board may in addition to suspension or cancellation of certificate, order suspension of  launching  of  any  scheme  of  a  mutual  fund  for  a  period  not  exceeding  one  year  for violation of any of the provisions of these regulations after following procedure under this Chapter.
(3) The Board may during the pendency of any proceeding of suspension or cancellation under this Chapter also order suspension for launching of any scheme not exceeding three months without following procedure under this Chapter : Provided that no order shall be passed without giving an opportunity of hearing. 228[ CHAPTER IX-A POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
76A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or  any  of  the  provisions  of  these  regulations  for  a  period  as  may  be  specified  but  not exceeding  twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to testing  new  products,  processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  in  live  environment  of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis.] CHAPTER X MISCELLANEOUS Power of the Board to issue clarifications
77.  In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  application  or  interpretation  of  these regulations,  the  Board  shall  have  the  power  to  issue  clarifications  and  guidelines  in  the form of notes or circulars which shall be binding on the sponsor, mutual funds, trustees, asset management companies and custodians. Repeal and saving
78. (1) The Securities & Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1993 are hereby repealed.
6. (1) The whole-time  employees of the Board shall be classified as follows: (a)  Officers (Grades A, B, C, D, E, F and Executive Director); (b)   Secretarial  Staff,  Accounts  Assistants  and  Library  Assistants  (Grades  A, B, C); 4[(ba)   Junior  Secretarial  Assistant,  Junior  Accounts  Assistant  5[Junior  Library Assistant and Junior engineer]] (c)  6[***] (d) Messenger,    Cook,   Driver,   Messenger-cum-Driver,    Messenger-cum- General Assistant.
7[(2) The Board  shall  specify  from time  to time  the pay  of each  post or group  of posts and  shall  grant  approval  for  sanction  of  posts  at  the  level  of  Executive  Director  while the Chairman shall be the Competent  Authority  for sanction of posts up to Grade F.]
(3) All appointments  in any  grade  or post  shall  be made  by the competent  authority  at its discretion  and no person  shall have a right to be appointed  to any particular  post or grade. Recruitment
(4) 8[(a)  Recruitment  shall  be  made  at  the  entry  level  in  Grade  A  or  in  Grade  B  or  in higher grade by issuing newspaper  advertisement. such  grade  as  may  be  specified  by  the  competent  authority  by  such  method  as  the Chairman  may determine, including by Campus Selection: Provided  that, in special  circumstances,  where  no suitable  candidate  is available  in the Board's  service  or  the  exigencies  of  work  require,  recruitment  may  also  be  made  at  a higher grade.] (b)   Mode  of  recruitment,  Educational  and  other  qualifications,  age  limit,  experience and  other  incidental  matters  related  to  the  recruitment  and  promotion  in  the  Board's service shall be as specified in the Schedule. (c)  A  competitive  examination,  including  9[written  tests]  and  interview,  shall  be conducted  by the Competent  Authority  or by an outside  agency engaged  by  the  Board for the purpose of recruitment. Provided  that  Competent  Authority  may  relax  any  or  all  of  these  requirements, for reasons to be recorded in writing 10[:] 11[Provided further that interview and/or group discussion shall not be conducted for the purpose of recruitment of whole time employees other than officers.] (d)   Competent authority   shall  constitute   a  selection   committee,   comprising   such number  of  persons  and  outside  expert  as  he  may  determine  for  interviewing  the candidates. Provided  12[***]  that   appointment  to  the  post  of  Executive  Director  shall    be approved   by  the  Board  before  an  offer  of  appointment   is  issued  to  the selected candidate. Temporary/Contract  employees
7. (1)(a)  Notwithstanding   anything   contained   in  these  Regulations,   the  competent authority  may  appoint  persons  on  a  temporary  basis  due  to  exigencies  of  work,  on suitable  terms  and  conditions,  subject  to  such  general  or  special  directions,  if  any issued by the Board from time to time. (b) The  terms  and conditions  of service  of the temporary  employees  shall  be specified by  the  competent  authority  but  in  no  case  shall  the  terms  and  conditions  so  specified be  more  favourable than  those  laid  down  in  these  regulations   for  an  appointment carrying equivalent status or responsibility.
(2)  Notwithstanding anything   contained   in  these  regulations,   Competent   authority may appoint  persons  on contract  basis due to exigencies  of work on suitable  terms  and conditions.
(3)  Competent  authority  may,  due  to  exigencies  of  work  and/or  non-availability  of Provided  that    the    Competent    Authority    may    recruit    trainee    officers    and    such    trainee officers    may    be    considered    for    regular    appointment    on    successful    completion    of    the training  period  and subject  to passing  a departmental  test and interview." suitable  candidates  within  the  Board's  service,  take  on  deputation  such  employees  in Grade  D  and  above  from  Govt.  or  any  other  Organisations  for  a  specified  period  and their terms  and conditions  of deputation,  shall  be specified  by the competent  authority in consultation  with the lending organisation.
(4)  In  the  case  of  appointment  to  the  post  of  Executive  Director  by  deputation  or  on contract,   the   appointment   shall   be   approved   by   the   Board   before   an   offer   of appointment  is issued to the person to be appointed on deputation or on contract. Appointments  to be made on minimum pay
8. All  initial  appointments  shall  be  made  on  the  minimum  pay  of  the  grade  to  which the  appointment  is  made,  provided  the  Chairman  may  keeping  in  view  the  higher academic  qualifications,  special  experience  of  value  to  the  Board  and  salary  in  the previous  job,  grant  additional  increments,  not  exceeding  four in the scale  of pay  fixed for the grade in which the appointment  is made. Re-employment  in Board
9. (1)  No  person  who  has  ceased  to  be  in  the  service  of  the  Board  except  by  way  of removal   or  dismissal   or  compulsory   retirement   may   be  re-employed   without   the specific  sanction  of,  and  on  such  terms  and  conditions  as  may  be  specified  by  the Board.
(2) Except  as otherwise  provided  by the Board  at the time of his re-employment,  these Regulations  shall  apply  to  a  person  who  is  re-employed  in  the  Board,  as  if  he  had entered the service for the first time on the date of his re-employment. Probation
10.  (1)  An  employee   directly   appointed   in  any   of  the   specified   scales   of  pay 13[***] shall be on probation for a period of 14[two] year. 15[(1A) An employee promoted to one grade/scale to another shall be on probation for a period of one year.]
(2)  Chairman  may,  if  he  considers  it  necessary  extend  the  period  of  probation  upto  a period  of one year for unsatisfactory  performance  or reduce  or dispense  with period  of probation for reasons to be recorded in writing.
(3)  Save  as  otherwise  provided  in  this  regulation,  an  employee  shall  be  deemed  to have  been  confirmed  in  the  post  to  which  he  has  been  appointed  or,  as  the  case  may be, promoted on successful completion  of the period of probation.
(4)  During  the  first  month  of  his  probation,  an  employee  may  be  discharged  without assigning  any  reasons  at  one  day's  notice  and  thereafter  at  one  month's  notice  or  by payment  of  substantive  pay  for  one  day  or  one  month  as  the  case  may  be  in  lieu thereof.
(5)  Without  prejudice  to  the  provisions  of  Regulation  17,  an  employee  selected  from the  Board's  employees  and  on  probation  shall  be  liable  to  be  reverted  to  his  previous grade  without  notice  or  pay  in  lieu  thereof  if,  in  the  opinion   of  the  competent authority, he fails to show satisfactory  performance  during the period of his probation. Commencement  of service
11. Except  as  otherwise  provided   by  or  under  these  Regulations,   "service"  of  an employee  shall  be deemed  to commence  from the working  day on which  an employee reports  for duty  in an appointment  covered  by  these  Regulations  at the place  and  time intimated to him by the appointing authority. Provided  that  if  he  reports  after  noon,  his  service  shall  commence  from  the  next following working day. Determination  of service by notice
12. (1)  An  employee  shall  not  leave  or  discontinue  his  service  in  the  Board  without first  giving  notice  to  the  Competent  Authority,  in  writing  of  his  intention  to  leave  or discontinue  the service.
(2) The period of notice required shall be,— (a)  In the case of employees holding the post on regular basis, three months; (b)  In the case of employees holding the post on probation, one month; Provided that  Chairman   may  waive  the  period  of  notice  required  under  this  sub- regulation for the reasons to be recorded in writing. Provided  further that the employee  shall not be entitled  to set off any leave earned  and not availed of by him against the period of such notice.
(3) In  the  case  of  breach  by  an  employee  of  the  provisions  of  the  sub-regulation  (2), he  shall  be  liable  to  pay  to  the  Board  as  compensation  a  sum  equal  to his  substantive pay for the period of notice required of him. Provided  that  the  payment  of  such  compensation  may  be  waived  by  the  Chairman,  at his discretion.
(4)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  the  resignation  of  an employee  shall  not  be  effective  unless  it  is  accepted  by  the  competent  authority.  The competent authority  may refuse to accept a resignation; (a)   If  disciplinary  proceedings  have  been  instituted  against  or  are  proposed  to  be instituted against the employee; (b)  If the employee  is under an obligation  to serve the ) Board for a specified period which has not yet expired; (c)  The employee owes the Board any sums of money; or (d)  For any other sufficient ground to be recorded in writing. employee   for   the   purposes   of   this   sub-regulation   if   he   has   been   placed   under suspension  under  these  Regulations  or  any  notice  has  been  issued  to  him  asking  him to  show  cause  why  disciplinary  proceedings  should  not  be  instituted  against  him  or any  charge-sheet  has  been  issued  to  him  under  these  Regulations  and  will  be  deemed to be pending till final orders are passed by the competent authority. according  to the English  calendar  and  shall  commence  from  the day  following  that  on which notice is given by the employee or the Board as the case may be. be deemed to be proper only if he remains on duty during the period of the notice. Superannuation  and Retirement
13. (1) An employee shall retire at 60 years of age. Provided  that   the   Board   may   retire   any   employee   on,   or   at   any   time   after   the completion  of  55  years  of  age  or  30  years  of  total  service,  whichever  is  earlier,  by giving him three months notice in writing.
(2)  An  employee,  who  attains  the  age  of  supperannuation  on  any  day  other  than  the first  day  of  any  calendar  month,  shall  retire  on  the  last  day  of  the  month  in  which  he completed his age of retirement.
(3) An employee  may also, if he so desires,  and subject  to terms of appointment  to the contrary,  if  any,  retire  from  service  on  completion  of  50  years  of  age  or  20  years  of service in the Board, by giving three months notice to the Board in writing. 16[(3A)  The  Board  may  also  offer  a scheme  subject  to  such  terms  and  conditions  as it may  specify,  to  its  whole-time  employees  for  voluntary  retirement  from  the  services of the Board.]
(4)  When  an  employee  retires  from  service  either  under  the  provisions  of  the  proviso to   sub-regulation   (1)   or   sub-regulation   (3),   the   Board   may   consider   grant   of compensation  on such scale  and terms  as may  be determined  by it from time  to time. The  Board  while  determining  the  terms  shall  take  into  account  all  relevant  factors including the balance of service left to a retiring employee.
(5)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  these  Regulations,  where  an  employee  has ordinary  leave  earned  but  not  availed  of  as  on  the  date  of  retirement,  he  may,  at  his option, (a)   be permitted  to avail of leave  subject  to a maximum  of ten  months  in respect  of leave  earned  under  these  Regulations  and  in  that  case  the  employee  will  be deemed to have retired from service on the expiry of the leave; or (b)    be  paid  a  lumpsum  amount  which  would  be  equivalent  to  pay  as  defined  in Regulation  3(1)(j)  of  these  Regulations  as  on  the  date  of  his  retirement,  for  the unavailed  ordinary  leave  earned  subject  to  maximum  of  ten  months  plus  all allowances   normally   admissible   to  the  employee  concerned   during  ordinary leave, after which he shall retire. the  age  of  superannuation  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Regulation  or  the date on which  he is retired  by  the Board  under  sub-regulation  (1) of the Regulation  or the  date  on  which  the  employee  voluntarily  retires  in  terms  of  sub-regulation  (3) 17[or sub-regulations  (3A)] of the Regulation as the case may be. Execution  of Bond, etc.
(6)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  these  Regulations,  the  Board  will  have  the right   to   obtain   undertakings/bonds   from   an   employee   for   payment   of   liquidated damages  relating  to  deputation  of  training  or  his  failure  to  complete  the  required number  of  years  of  service  in  a  particular  post,  as  may  be  determined  by  the  Board from time to time. CHAPTER III RECORD OF SERVICE,  SENIORITY,  PROMOTION  AND REVERSION Record of Service
14. A record  of service  shall be maintained  by the Board  in respect  of each employee at  such  place  or  places  and  shall  be  kept  in  such  form  and  shall  contain  such information  as may be specified from time to time by the Chairman. Seniority
15. 18[(l) An employee  confirmed  in the services  of the Board  shall  ordinarily  rank  for seniority  in  his/her  grade,  according  to  the  date  of  his/her  confirmation  in  that  grade, as follows : (a)    All   India   direct   recruitment   through   open   competition/internal   promotions through   switch   over  to  the  officer  cadre  - an  employee   on  probation   shall ordinarily  rank  for  seniority  among  the  employees  selected  along  with  him/her in  the  same  batch  according  to  the  ranking  assigned  to  him/her  at  the  time  of selection. (b)   Through  Campus  Selection  - an  employee  on probation  shall  ordinarily  rank  for seniority  among  the  employees  selected  along  with  him/her  in  the  same  batch according  to  the  ranking  assigned  to  him/her  upon  completion  of  inductions training or departmental  examination  as decided by the competent authority.]
(2)  The  Board  shall,  each  year,  prepare  a  list  of  the  employees  in  its  service  showing their  names  in  the  order  of  their  seniority  containing  such  other  particulars  as  the Chairman  may  determine  and  a  copy  of  such  list  shall  be  made  available  to  each employee. Promotion
16. (1)   All   promotions   shall   be   made   at   the   discretion   of   the   Board   and notwithstanding   his  seniority   in  a  grade   no  employee   shall   have  a  right  to  be promoted to any particular post or grade. Provided  that  an  employee,  who  has  put  in  a  minimum  of  3  years  of  service  in  any post  or  grade,  when  promotion  opportunities  arise,  shall  be eligible  for consideration of promotion to a higher post. 18 Substituted  by  SEBI  (Employees'  Service)  Regulations,  2010,  w.r.e.f.  30-1-2008.  Prior  to its substitutions  sub-regulations  (1) read as under :
"(1)  An  employee  confirmed  in  the  services  of the  Board  shall  ordinarily  rank  for  seniority in his    grade    according    to    his    date    of    confirmation    in    the    grade    and    an    employee    on probation  shall  ordinarily  rank  for  seniority  among  the  employees  selected  along  with  him in the same batch according  to the ranking assigned  to him at the time of selection." Provided  further that  an  employee  in  any  grade  in  the  cadre  of  secretarial  staff, accounts  assistants  and library  assistants  who  possess  requisite  qualifications  may  be considered   for   switch   over   to   the   19[corresponding   grade   in  the] Officer   cadre against  such  vacancies,  which  shall  be  10%  of  total  vacancies  arising  in  a  calendar year,  as  may  be  notified  by  the  Competent  Authority,  subject  to  such  employees qualifying  in  a  departmental  test  conducted  by  the  Competent  Authority  or  by  an outside   agency   engaged   by   the   Board   and   interview   to   be   conducted   by   the Competent Authority for this purpose. 20[Provided  further  that  an  employee  working  as  Junior  Secretarial  Assistant,  Junior Accounts  Assistant, Junior Library  Assistant or Junior  Engineer,  who  has  completed minimum seven years of service and possesses the requisite qualifications for Officer Grade A as given in these Regulations, may be considered for switch over to Grade A in  the  Officer  cadre  against  the  vacancies,  which  shall  be  within  the  overall  10% vacancies  as  mentioned  in  the  second  proviso  and  as  may  be  notified  by  the Competent  Authority  subject  to  such  employee  qualifying  in  the  departmental  test conducted by the Competent Authority or by an outside agency engaged by the Board and  interview to be conducted by the Competent Authority for this purpose.]
(2)  All  promotions  shall  be  against  vacancies  in  sanctioned  posts  declared  by  the competent authority  21[except promotions up to Officer Grade C]   and  shall  be based on— (a)   Seniority,  merit  and suitability  in the cases  of Officers  and Secretarial  Staff, Accounts   Assistants  22[,  Library   Assistants,   Junior  Secretarial   Assistants, Junior   Accounts    Assistants,    Junior    Library    Assistants    and    Junior Engineers]; (b)   Seniority and   merit   in   the   cases   of  23[***]   Messenger,   Cook,   Driver, Messenger-cum-Driver,  Messenger-cum-General  Assistant. Provided that   in   assessing   the   suitability   of   the   employee   for   promotion,   the performance  of the employee  in the post or grade,  from where he is being considered for promotion, shall be considered.
(3) For   the   purpose   of   promotions,   Chairman   shall   constitute   a   Departmental Promotion  Committee  comprising  such  number  of  persons  including  external  expert which   may   conduct   interviews,   if   so   decided,   for   selection   of   employees   for considering  promotion  to the next grade or post. Provided that  in  the  case  of  promotions   to  the  post  of  Executive   Director,   the Committee  shall consist of Chairman and two other members of the Board. Reversion
17. An  employee  promoted  from  one  grade  to  another  shall  be  liable  to  be  reverted without notice at any time within one year of such promotion. CHAPTER IV PAY, ALLOWANCES  AND OTHER BENEFITS Pay and allowances
18. (1)  The  Board,  shall  at  its  discretion,  determine  from  time  to  time  the  pay  and allowances  applicable to different categories  of employees. Other benefits
(2) The  Board,  may  at its discretion,  from time  to time  frame  such  schemes  and  allow such other  benefits  for the welfare  of the employees  at such  terms  and conditions  as it may determine. When accrue and payable
19. Subject  to  the  provisions  of  these  Regulations,  pay  and  allowances  shall  accrue from  the  commencement  of the  service  of an  employee,  and  shall  become  payable  on the   afternoon   of  the  last   working   day   of   each   month   in  respect   of   the  service performed during the said month. Provided  that  an  employee  proceeding   on  ordinary  leave  other  than  extraordinary leave  for  a  period  not  less  than  one  month  may  be  paid  in  advance  one  month's  pay and allowances if he applies therefor. When not payable for part of a month
20. Pay and allowances  shall not be payable  for a part of a month to an employee  who leaves  or  discontinues  his  service  without  due  notice  during  a  month,  unless  such notice has been waived by the competent authority. When allowance to cease
21. Pay  and  allowances  shall  cease  to  accrue  from  the  date  as  an  employee  ceases  to be in service. In  the  case  of  an  employee  dismissed,  removed  or  compulsorily   retired  from  the Board's  service,  the  pay  and  allowances  shall  cease  from  the  date  of  his  dismissal, removal  or  compulsory  retirement.  In  the  case  of  an  employee  who  dies  while  in service, they shall cease from the day following that on which the death occurs. Admissibility  of allowances
22. Allowances  shall  only  be  payable  to  employees  who  are  actually  at  that  time fulfilling the conditions subject to which they are admissible. Compensatory  allowance
23. Notwithstanding  the  fact  that  the  whole-time  of  an  employee  is  at  the  disposal  of the  Board,  the  Board  may  grant  compensatory  allowance,  not  counting  as  pay,  to  an employee  who  is  required  to  work  on  holidays  or  to  put  in  extra  hours  on  week  days in connection with the Board's work. The  rate  at,  and  the  circumstances  in  which  such  allowance  may  be  drawn  shall  be determined  by the Chairman. Increments
24. (1)  In  an  incremental  scale,  the  increment  shall  accrue  on  an  annual  basis  or  each stage of that scale, whether such service be probationary,  officiating or substantive. Provided  that  the  benefit  of  increment  shall  be  admissible  from  the  first  of  the  month in which it accrues, irrespective  of the actual date of its accrual.
(2)  Officiating  service  in  a  higher  grade  will  count  for  increments  in  an  employee's substantive  grade  as  well  as in the higher  grade  in which  he is officiating  and  if there is  an  intermediate  grade  between  the  two  in  which  he  would  have  officiated  had  he not  been  appointed  to officiate  in the higher  grade,  also  in  the intermediate  grade,  but the  period  during  which  an  employee  is  on  leave  without  pay  will  not  count  for increment  unless  so  authorised  by  the  competent  authority  for  reasons  to  be  recorded in writing.
(3) Sanction to draw increments  will be given by the Competent authority.
(4) No increment  may  be withheld  except as a disciplinary  measure  under  Regulation 79  and  each  order  withholding  an  increment  shall  state  the  period  for  which  it  is withheld  and  whether  the  postponement  shall  have  the  effect  of  postponing  future increments: Provided  that  if  in  an  incremental  scale  there  is  an  efficiency  bar,  an  employee  shall not  draw  increments  above  that  bar  until  he  has  been  certified  fit  to  do  so  by  the Competent  Authority.  On  each  occasion  on  which  an  employee  is  allowed  to  pass  an efficiency  bar  which  has  previously  been  enforced  against  him,  he  shall  be  placed  in the  incremental  scale  at  such  stage  as  the  authority  competent  to  remove  the  bar  may fix  provided  that  such  stage  shall  not  be  higher  than  that  at  which  he  would  draw  his pay  if  the  bar  had  not  been  enforced  against  him  and  further  that  no  increments granted on the removal of a bar shall have a retrospective  effect.
(5)  The  Chairman  may,  grant  stagnation  increments  to  an  employee  who  has  reached the last stage in the concerned scale. Refixation  of pay on promotion
25. (1) The  pay  of  an  employee  promoted  from  one  grade  to  another  shall  be  initially fixed  at  the  minimum  in  the  scale  of  higher  grade,  the  difference  between  the  pay  so fixed  and the substantive  pay  of the employee  in the old scale,  if the later be more,  be treated as personal pay; On confirmation
(2)  On  confirmation  in  the  higher  grade,  the  pay  of  an  (2)  employee  shall  be  fixed  at the  stage  in  the  higher  grade  which  is  next  above  his  substantive  pay  in  the  old  scale as on the date of confirmation,  if such pay be higher than the pay drawn  by him at the time of confirmation. 24[Grant of increment on promotion grade 25  A.  (1)  Without  prejudice  to  anything  contained  in  regulation  24,  wh ere  an employee is promoted to a higher grade on or after November 1, 2012,- (a) before reaching the maximum of the incremental scale in the pre-promotional grade, the date of the next increment in the promotional grade shall be the date of increment as existing in the pre-promotional grade. (b)  after  having  reached  the  maximum  of  the  incremental  scale  in  the  pre- promotional  grade,  the  date  of  the  next  increment  in  promotional  grade  shall  be one year from the date of promotion: Provided that after having reached the maximum of the incremental scale in the  pre-promotional  grade,  in  cases  where  the  officer  promoted  was  due  to receive,  any  post  scale  benefits  such  as  personal  allowance  and  stagnation increment  in  the  pre-promotional  grade  within  one  year  from  the  date  of actual promotion, the date of increment in the promotional grade shall be the date of accrual of such post scale benefit.] Domicile
26. (1) Every  employee  shall on his appointment  declare  his domicile  in writing  to the Board  and  if such  domicile  is  not  his  place  of  birth  he  must  establish  the  same  to  the satisfaction  of the Competent  Authority.
(2) No employee  who has once indicated  his domicile,  shall be (2) allowed  to alter the same  unless  he  satisfies  the  Board  that  the  change  is  bonafide  and  in  no  case  may  an employee  be permitted  to change  his domicile  in such a manner  as to increase  the cost to the Board of any such concession. CHAPTER  V LEAVE AND JOINING TIME Kinds of leave
27. (1)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  these  Regulations, the  following  kinds  of  leave may be granted to an employee: (a)  Casual leave and Special Casual leave (b)  Ordinary leave (c)  Sick leave and Special leave (d)  Maternity leave 1[or Peternity Leave, as the case may be] (e)  Extraordinary  leave (f)  Accident leave (g) Other special leave as may be specified by the Board
(2)  Pay  during  leave  shall  be  drawn  at  full  or  half  rate  of  leave  pay,  according  to  the kind  of  leave  availed  of  by  the  employee  provided  that  no  pay  shall  be  admissible during the extraordinary  leave. Authorities  empowered  to grant leave
28. The power to grant leave shall vest in the competent  authority.  All applications  for leave shall be addressed by the employee to the authority empowered  to grant leave. Power to refuse leave or recall an employee on leave
29. (1)  Leave  cannot  be  claimed  as  a  matter  of  right.  When  the  exigencies  of  the service  so  require,  discretion  to  refuse  or  revoke  leave  of  any  description  is  reserved to  the  authority  empowered  to  grant  it,  and  an  employee  already  on  leave  may  be recalled  by that  authority  when  it considers  necessary  in the interests  of the service  of the Board. Lapse of leave on cessation of service
(2)  Save  as  otherwise  specifically  provided  in  these  (2)  Regulations,  leave  earned  by an employee lapses on the date on which he ceases to be in service. Earlier return from leave
(3)  Unless  he  is  permitted  to  do  so  by  the  authority  which  (3)  granted  his  leave,  an employee  on  leave  may  not  return  to duty  more  than  14  days  before  the  expiry  of the period of leave granted to him. Commencement  and termination  of leave
30. (1)  The  first  day  of  an  employee's  leave  is  the  working  day  succeeding  that  upon which he takes over charge.
(2) The last day  of an employee's  leave  is the working  day  preceding  that  upon  which he reports his return to duty. Obligation  to furnish leave address
31. An   employee   shall,   before   proceeding   on   leave,   intimate   to   the   competent authority  his  address  with  telephone  number  (if  any)  while  on  leave,  and  shall  keep the said authority informed of any change in the address previously  furnished. Station to which an employee should report on return
32. An  employee  on leave  shall,  unless  otherwise  instructed  to the  contrary,  return  for duty to the place at which he was last stationed. When medical certificate of fitness may be demanded
33. A  competent  authority  may  require  an  employee  who  has  availed  himself  leave above  three  days  for  reasons  of  health  to  produce  a  medical  certificate  of  fitness before  he resumes  duty  even  though  such  leave  was  not actually  granted  on a medical certificate. Leave not admissible to an employee under suspension
34. Leave  may  not  be  granted  to  an  employee  under  suspension  or  against  whom disciplinary  proceedings  are pending. Casual leave
35. (1) An employee  shall be eligible  for casual  leave upto  a maximum  of 12 working days  in  each  calendar  year  provided  that  no  employee  may  take  casual  leave  for  less than ½ day or more than 5 days at a time. Provided  that  public  holidays  may  not  be  combined  with  such  leave  in  such  a way  as to  increase  the  absence  at  any  one  time  beyond  twelve  days.  Any  casual  leave  which is  extended  beyond  these  limits  will  be  treated  as  Ordinary  Leave  in  respect  of  the entire period. Casual  leave  cannot  be  suffixed  or  prefixed  with  any  other  kind  of  leave  except  with special casual leave.
(2)  No  casual  leave  may  be  availed  of,  except  with  prior  sanction  of  the  competent authority. Provided  that  if  for  any  genuine  reason,  it  is  not  possible  for  an  employee  to  obtain such  permission  in  advance,  he  shall  intimate  his  absence  to  such  authority  within  24 hours. Provided  further that such authority  may  condone  the delay,  if any, in this behalf  if he is  satisfied  that  an  employee  was  not  in a position  to  intimate  his  absence  for reasons beyond his control.
(3)  When  an  employee  joins  the  service  of  the  Board  at  any  time  during  the  year,  his entitlement  to  casual  leave  shall  be  at  the  rate  of  one  day  per  month  during  that calendar year.
(4)  The  casual  leave,  which  has  not  been  availed  of  at  the  end  of  the  calendar  year, shall  be  credited  to  the  extent  of  50%  of  such  leave  not  availed  of,  to  the  ordinary leave  account  of  the  concerned  employee.  Fraction,  if  any,  in  such  cases  shall  be ignored. Special Casual Leave
36. Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  Regulation  35,  the  Chairman  may  permit the grant of special casual leave.
(1)  When  the  absence  from  duty  is  necessitated  by  orders  from  the  authorities empowered  to  issue  quarantine  orders  not  to  attend  office  in  consequence  of  any infectious disease in the family or household of any employee;
(2)  When  the  absence  of  an  employee  is  due  to  his  having  sustained  a  bodily  injury while  on duty  and  the  absence  is supported  by  certificate  from  the  Medical  Officer  of the Board or registered medical practitioner;
(3)  When  the  absence  is  necessitated  by  reason  of  an  employee  who  is  a  member  of the  Auxiliary  Force,  India,  Home  Guard,  A  R  P  or  other  Civil  Defence  Organization or  any  other  organisation  of  a  similar  nature  having  to  attend  an  annual  camp  or  a training course; or
(4)  When  there  are  other  exceptional  circumstances  necessitating  the  grant  of  special casual leave in excess of the specified limits;
(5)   For   undergoing   family   planning   operation,   subject   to   production   of   medical certificate :- (a)  Female Employees  : (i)  14 days for tubectomy/laproscopy (ii)  1 day on the day on which the husband undergoes vasectomy. (iii) 1 day on the day of IUD insertion/reinsertion. (b)  Male Employees  : (i)  6 days for vasectomy  operation (ii)  7 days when the wife undergoes tubectomy/laproscopy. Provided  that   special   casual   leave   sanctioned   under   this   sub-regulation   may   be clubbed with any other leave, except casual leave. regulation   (4)   of  this   regulation,   the   total   period   of  casual   leave   granted   under Regulation  35(1)  and  the special  casual  leave  granted  under  this  regulation  in any  one calendar  year  shall  in  no  case  exceed  45  days  and  if the  grant  of  leave  under  the  said Regulations  shall  result  in  such  total  period  being  extended  beyond  45  days,  any period  of  absence  in  excess  of  45  days  shall  be  treated,  subject  to  the  provisions  of Regulation  43(2)  as  Ordinary,  Sick,  Special  or  Extraordinary  Leave,  as  the  employee concerned may request and as may be admissible to him. regulation  (4)  of  this  regulation,  in  computing  casual  leave  under  Regulation  35  (1) and  special  casual  leave  under  this  Regulation,  intervening  public  holidays  shall  not be reckoned as day of casual leave or special casual leave as the case may be.
25[(6)  Subject  to  the  exigencies  of  work  and  approval  by  the  competent  authority, differently  abled  employees,  as  defined  in  the  Rights  of  Persons  with  Disabilities  Act, 2016, may be granted, in a calendar year, a maximum of ten days of special casual leave for  participating  in  Conference,  Seminars,  Trainings  or  Workshops  related  to  disability and development related programs and a maximum of four days of special casual leave for specific requirements relating to the disability of the employee: Provided that the grant of special casual leave under this sub-regulation shall be subject to such terms and conditions as may be decided by the competent authority from time to time.] 26[Special hardship leave for female employees. Special  casual  leave  for  child  care.—(1)  Special  casual  leave  for  child  care  may  be granted   to  a female   employee   who  is  a  mother,   for  taking  care  of  two  eldest  surviving children   who  have not  attained  the  age  of  twelve  years,  for  a  period  of  fifteen  days  per annum for each child.
(2)  The  special  casual  leave  for  child  care  will  be  admissible  for  looking  after  the  various needs of   the   child   like   medical   needs,   educational    needs   and   other   child   rearing requirements.
(3)  Special  casual  leave  for  child  care  cannot  be  clubbed  with  any  other  type  of  leave  and  the intervening  holidays  during  the  period  of  leave  would  also  be  counted  for  the  purposes  of  the  said leave.
(4)  The  special  casual  leave  for  child  care  may  be  availed  in  multiple  spells  in  one  calendar  year and the unavailed  leave would lapse at the end of every calendar  year.
(5)  Leave  fare  concession  cannot  be  availed  during  the  period  of  the  special  casual  leave  for child care.
(6)  The  employee  can  proceed  on  special  casual  leave  for  child  care  only  after  obtaining  the
36A. (1) Eligibility. (a)  A  female   employee   confirmed   in  the  services   of  the  Board   and  having completed  five  years  of  service  in  the  Board,  is  eligible  to  apply  for  special hardship leave: Provided   that  special   hardship   leave  before  completion   of  five  years  of service  may  be  sanctioned  in  exceptional  circumstances  for  the  purposes provided  in  sub-regulation  (2),  on  an  application  by  such  female  employee and  upon  recommendation   of  the  approving  authority  in  accordance   with sub-regulation  (4); (b)  A   female   employee   may   avail   special   hardship   leave   as   extension   of maternity  leave  irrespective  of  completion  of  service  of  five  years  in  the Board; (c)  Approval  of  the  special  hardship  leave  shall  be  the  sole  discretion  of  the Board,  depending  upon  the  grounds  including  the  administrative  exigencies of   the   Board,   reason   for   which   the   leave   is   sought   for   and   merits   of individual  cases; (d)  A  female  employee  shall  not  proceed  on  special  hardship  leave  without  the approval of approving authority in accordance  with sub-regulation  (4); (e)  Special hardship leave shall not be available to female employees,— (i)  serving abroad under special arrangements  or bonds; (ii) who have executed service bonds and have not completed it; (iii)against  whom  disciplinary  proceedings  are  proposed  or  pending  or who  are  under  suspension,  including  female  employees  against  whom action  has  been  initiated  by  Government  agencies  or  other  law enforcement  authorities; (iv)appointed  on contract basis; (v)  falling   under   any   other   category   as   may   be   intimated   to   the employees  from time to time. Purpose of special hardship leave.
(2)  A  female  employee,  eligible  under  sub-regulation  (1),  may  apply  for  special hardship  leave  for  the  purposes  of  taking  care  of  the  family  or  children  or  health grounds of self or dependent family members. Period of special hardship leave.
(3)  Special  hardship  leave  may  be  availed  for  a  period  not  exceeding  two  years during  the  entire  service,  and  may  be  availed  for  a  minimum  period  of  three  months once in a year. Approving authority for special hardship leave.
(4) Approving  authority  for special  hardship  leave  for female  employees  in grade  'D' and  above,  shall  be the  Whole  Time  Member  in charge  of the  concerned  department where  such  female  employee  is  serving,  and  in  other  cases,  the  approving  authority approval  of such leave from the competent  authority  : Provided  that  in case  of any  genuine  exigency,  if it is not  possible  for  any  employee  to  obtain such  permission  in  advance,  she  shall  intimate  her  absence  to  such  authority  within  24  hours: Provided  further  that  such  authority  may  condone  the  delay,  if  any,  in  this  behalf  if  he  is satisfied  that  an  employee  was  not  in  position  to  intimate  her  absence  for  reasons  beyond  her control. adopted." shall  be  the  Executive  Director  in  charge  of  the  concerned  department  where  such female employee is serving. Other conditions.
(5) Other conditions relating to special hardship leave shall be as follows,— (a)  Such  leave  shall  be  without  pay,  perquisites  and  allowances  except  house allowance 27[and claims for medical treatment availed in India: shall  include,  medical  insurance,  claim  from  Medical  Assistance  Fund,  non- policy medical claims, eye refraction and annual health check-up]; (b)  An   employee   on   special   hardship   leave   shall   be   allowed   to   retain   the accommodation  provided  by the Board  or receive  the house  allowance,  as the case may be; (c)  Application  for special  hardship  leave shall be submitted  by the employee  in grade  'D'  and  above,  at  least  two  months  before  the date  from  which  leave  is to  be  availed,  and  in  all  other  case  at  least  one  month  before  the  date  from which leave is to be availed: Provided  that the approving  authority  shall  have discretion  to relax the period specified in this clause in appropriate  cases; (d)  For  computing  the  eligibility  to avail  special  hardship  leave,  completed  years of services shall be reckoned; (e)  Special hardship leave once approved, shall be irrevocable; (f)  Before expiry of  the  approved  special  hardship  leave,  a  female  employee shall not resume for duty without permission from the approving authority; (g)  Special  hardship  leave  may  be  availed  irrespective  of  balance  of  leaves  of any other category,  and may  be combined  with any categories  of leave except casual leave,  special  casual  leave,  Special  casual leave in lieu of joining  time, and special leave ; (h)  Special  hardship  leave  shall not be granted  for avoiding  transfer  or posting  or placement,  etc.; (i)  A  female  employee,  who  leaves  the  services  of  the  Board  by  resignation  or voluntary  retirement  during  the  special  hardship  leave  shall  be  liable  to  pay compensation  to the Board,  which shall be a sum equal to her substantive  pay for the period of notice as required of her in terms of these regulations; 28[(ia) A female employee, who leaves the services of the Board by way of resignation or  voluntary  retirement  during  the  special  hardship  leave  or  within  five  years after  resuming  office  after  availing  such  leave,  shall  be  liable  to  pay  to  the Board, an amount equal to the entire house allowance and medical claims paid during such leave: Provided  that  after  approval  of  the  competent  authority,  based  on  requisite documentary evidence, examination and certification by the Medical Officer of the  Board,  the  payment  of  said  amount  from  the  female  employee,  who  has availed  special  hardship  leave  on  health  grounds  of  self  and  that  being  the reason for which she is unable to resume office may be waived;] (j)  Board  may  cancel  the special  hardship  leave  and recall  the female  employee and  proceed   in  the  matter  as  deemed   fit,  in  case  it  is  found  that  such 2019 w.e.f. May 08, 2019 2019 w.e.f. May 08, 2019 employee  is  undertaking  or  engaged  in,  directly  or  indirectly,  any  trade  or employment  or business or profession; (k)  Special   hardship   leave   shall   be   counted   as   service   for   the   purpose   of seniority; (l)  For  the  period  of  special  hardship  leave  availed,  no  other  leave  shall  be credited to such employee; (m)Female  employee  shall  make  herself  available  during  the  period  of  special hardship   leave   as   witness   in  any   investigation,   court   case,   departmental enquiry  or  any  other  such  proceeding  and  shall  be paid  travelling  and  halting allowance, as the case may be; (n)  Board  may cancel the special  hardship  leave at any time and recall the female employees in case of exigencies; (o)  Board  shall  not  approve,  during  the  special  hardship  leave  period,  any  fresh loan or advance of whatever nature; (p)  A  female  employee  on  special  hardship  leave  shall  submit  the  return  of immovable  or movable or valuable property as required; (q)  A  female  employee   availing  special  hardship  leave  shall  intimate  to  the Board,  her  local  address  for  correspondences  and  also  inform  any  changes  in address for communication,  from time to time. ] Ordinary  leave
37.  (1)  29[ ( i ) ] Every  employee  shall  be  entitled  to  ordinary  leave  at  the  rate  of  30 days  for every year of service subject to a maximum  accumulation  of 30[300 days]. 31[(ii)  ]The  leave  so  earned  shall  be  credited  to  the  ordinary  leave  account  of  the employee half  yearly  on  1st  April  and  1st  October  respectively  in  each  year  at  the rate  of  15 days for every 6 months of service rendered by such employee. 32[(iii)  Where  an  employee  has  to  his  credit  286  days  or  more  of  ordinary  leaves,  the further credit of 15 days ordinary leave shall be done at the beginning of each half year (on 1st April or 1st October) to the employee’s additional ordinary leave account and the ordinary leaves availed during the six month period thereafter ending on 30th September or 31st March shall be deducted from such account: Provided that if ordinary leaves sanctioned is for less than 15 days, the balance shall be credited to the ordinary leave account subject to the ceiling of 300 days at the close of that half year: Provided further that an employee shall have his ordinary leaves sanctioned and availed before  30th  September  or  31st  March  as  leaves  beyond  300  days  will  lapse  on  30th September or 31st March, as the case may be.] 33[(iv)]  No  employee,  shall  earn  ordinary  leave  when  he  is  on  leave  other  than casual  leave for  a  continuous  period  of  more  than  6  months.  If  an  employee  renders less  than  6  months  of  service  in  any  half  year,  he  shall  be  credited  with  one  day  for every 11 days of duty. 34[(v)] Fractions  of a day of earned leave shall be taken as full day if amounting  to half a day or more, and shall be ignored if amounting  to less than half a day.
(2) The period  of ordinary  leave, which  can be taken at one time by an employee  shall not be less than five days. Provided  that  the  employee  may  take  less  than  5  days  when  he  does  not  have  casual leave to his credit.
(3)  Application  for  grant  of  ordinary  leave  shall  be  submitted  fifteen  days  in  advance from the date of availing, to the Competent Authority.
(4) An employee on ordinary leave shall draw pay equal to leave pay. Encashment  of Ordinary Leave
38.  (1)  An  employee  may  be  permitted  to  encash  ordinary  leave  once  35[every calendar year] for a minimum period of 10 days and a maximum period of 30 days: 36[Provided the employee has to his credit a balance of 180 days ordinary leaves or more after encashment.]
(2)  If  an  employee  dies  during  the  Board's  service  or  who  is  declared  by  the  Medical Officer  of  the  Board  to  be  completely   and  permanently   incapacitated   for  further service,  he  (legal  heirs  in  case  of  death  of  an  employee)  may  be  granted  by  the competent  authority,  cash  equivalent  to  unavailed  earned  leave  to  his  credit  on  the date of death, invalidation from service, as the case may be.
37[(3)  An  employee  of  the  Board  who  resigns  from  service  after  giving  proper  notice of  resignation,  in  terms  of  regulation  12,  may  be  permitted  encashment  of  half  of  the period  of  ordinary  leave  at  his/her  credit  as  on  the  date  of  resignation  subject  to  a maximum of five months ordinary leave.] Sick leave
39. (1)  Every  employee  shall  be  entitled  to  sick  leave,  on  production   of  medical certificate,  at  the  rate  of  20  days  for  every  calendar  year  of  service  subject  to  a maximum  of 540 days  during  the full period  of his service.  Additional  sick leave  may be granted if it is considered necessary and advisable in the interest of the Board. Provided   further that   in   the   case   of   an   employee,   the   production   of   a   medical certificate  may  not  be  insisted  upon  if  sick  leave  to  be  granted  does  not  exceed  three days.
(2) Sick leave shall be on half pay. Provided  that  where  an  employee  has  served  the  Board  for  at  least  a  period  of  three years,  he  may,  if  he  so  requests,  be  permitted  to  avail,  during  the  full  period  of  his service,  sick  leave  on  leave  pay  upto  a  maximum  period  of  nine  months  and  such leave  on  leave  pay  shall  be  entered  in  his  sick  leave  account  as  twice  the  amount  of leave taken by him.
(3) An employee  may  be granted  sick leave  during  the first year of his service  on pro- rata basis at the discretion of the Competent Authority. Maternity leave
40. (1)  Maternity  leave,  which  shall  be  on  leave  pay,  may  be  granted  to  a  female employee  upto  a period  of 180  days  on full  pay  at a time  and  not  more  than  360  days during the entire period of service.
(2)  Female  employees  undergoing  hysterectomy  operation  may  also  claim  maternity leave for a period  not exceeding  20 days (including  stay in hospital)  within  the overall ceiling of 360 days.
(3)  Leave  not  exceeding  45  days  may  be  granted  to  a  female  employee  during  the entire  service  of  the  female  employee  in  case  of  miscarriage  including  abortion  on production of medical certificate within the overall ceiling of 360 days.
(4) A competent  authority  may  grant  leave  of  any  other  kind  admissible  to the female employee  in combination  with,  or in continuation  of  maternity  leave  if  the request  for its grant is supported by requisite medical certificate. 38[Paternity Leave
40A. (1) Paternity  Leave  may be granted  to a male Staff member  (natural father),  with less than two surviving  children,  during the confinement  of his wife for child birth, for a  period  of  fifteen  days  per  child,  from  fifteen  days  prior  to  the  delivery  or  up  to  six months from the date of such delivery.
(2)  Paternity  Leave  may  also  be  granted  to  a  male  employee  (adoptive  father),  with less  than  two  surviving   children,   who  has  adopted   a  child  through   proper  legal process,  for  a  period  of  fifteen  days  per  child  within  six  months  from  the  date  of adoption.
(3) During the period of Paternity Leave, the employee shall be paid leave pay.
(4) Paternity  Leave  may  be combined  with  any  kind  of leave  other  than  Casual  Leave and Special Casual Leave.
(5) The employee  shall  avail  the entire  Paternity  Leave  at one time  during  the eligible period as mentioned in sub-regulations  (1) and (2), as the case may be.] Accident leave
41. (1)  Accident  leave  may  be  granted  to  an  employee  who  sustains  an  injury  in  the course  of  the  performance  of  his  duties,  for  the  period  for  which  leave  is  certified  by the Medical Officer of the Board to be necessary for recovery from the injury.
(2)  Accident  leave  would  also  be admissible  to an  employee,  who  is on  tour  / duty  in connection  with the official work of the Board, subject to the period for which leave is necessary  for  recovery  from  the  injury  being  certified  either  by  the  Board's  Medical Officer, or a Government/Municipal  doctor.
(3)  The  competent  authority  may,  at  the  option  of the  employee,  grant  any  other  kind of  leave  as  admissible  to  him  for  the  period  so  medically  certified  and  also  in combination  with or in continuation  of any accident leave sanctioned.
(4)  An  employee  on  accident  leave  shall  for  the  first  four  months  thereof,  draw  a pay equal to his leave pay and half leave pay for the rest of the period. Extraordinary  leave
42. (1) Extraordinary  leave  may be granted to an employee  when no other leave is due to  him  and  when,  having  regard  to  his  length  of  service,  sick  or  special  leave  is  not considered  justified  by  the  competent  authority.  Except  in  exceptional  circumstances, the duration  of extraordinary  leave shall not exceed  90 days on any one occasion  and 360 days during the entire period of an employee's  service.
(2) The  competent  authority  may  grant  extraordinary  leave  in combination  with,  or  in continuation  of leave of any other kind admissible  to the employee,  and may  commute retrospectively  periods of absence without leave into extraordinary  leave.
(3)  No  pay  and  allowances  are  admissible  during  the  period  of  extraordinary  leave and the period spent on such leave shall not count for increments: Provided  that,  in  cases  where  the  sanctioning  authority  is  satisfied  that  the  leave  was taken  on  account  of  illness  or  for  any  other  cause  beyond  the  employee's  control,  it may direct that the period of extraordinary  leave may count for increments. Special leave
43. (1) During  the full period  of his service  an employee  may  be granted  special  leave on  private  affairs  for  a  period  not  exceeding  360  days.  Special  leave  may  not  be availed of if ordinary leave is admissible; Provided  that  an  employee  may  be  granted  special  leave  if  he  is  suffering  from  a disease  requiring  prolonged  treatment  and  he  has  no  ordinary  leave  and  sick  leave  to his credit and is also not eligible.
(2) In case  an employee  is absent  from  duty  on account  of quarantine,  the Board  may, at  the  request  of  the  employee,  treat  such  absence  upto  a  maximum  of  90  days  as ordinary,  sick  or  special  leave  if  such  leave  is  otherwise  permissible.  Special  leave under the sub-regulation  may be availed of even if ordinary leave is admissible. Pay during special leave
44. Special  leave  shall  be  on  half  leave  pay,  which  shall  be  reduced,  except  with  the special sanction of the Chairman, to one quarter of leave pay after six months. Joining Time
45. (1)  Joining  time  may  be  granted  to  an  employee  by  the  Chairman  to  enable  the employee— (a)  to join a new post to which he is appointed while on duty in his old post; or (b)   to  join  a  new  post  on  return  from  leave  of  not  more  than  four  months'  duration although  the  duration  of  leave  exceeds  four  months,  the  employee  has  not  had sufficient notice of his appointment  to the new post.
(2)  Joining  time  shall  not  be  granted  when  no  change  in  the  headquarters   of  an employee is involved. Pay and allowances  during joining time
(3)  The  pay  and  allowances  of  an  employee  on  joining  time  shall  be  determined  in accordance  with the Regulations. Period for which admissible
(4)  Joining  time  which  may  be  allowed  to  an  employee  shall  not  exceed  seven  days, exclusive of the number of days spent on travelling. How calculated
(5)  In  calculating  joining  time  admissible  to  an  employee,  the  day  on  which  he  is relieved  from  his  old  post  shall  be  excluded  but  public  holidays  following  the  day  of his relief shall be included in the joining time. Special casual leave in lieu of joining time
(6)  Where  an  employee  on  transfer  from  one  centre  to  another  does  not  avail  of  the joining  time  or  his  joining  time  has  been  curtailed  due  to  exigencies   of  Board's service,  he  may  be  allowed  to  avail  of  the  Special  Casual  Leave  to  the  extent  of unavailed  joining  time  subject  to  a  maximum  of  7  days,  at  any  time  after  the  date  of reporting  at  new  centre  but  before  the  completion  of  a  period  of  six  months  or  such other  extended  period  as may  be agreed  to by the Board  for submitting  supplementary travelling  allowance  bill  in  respect  of  his  family  and  personal  effects  provided  he  has advised transfer. Saturdays/Sundays/holidays   prefixed  to  Special  Casual  Leave  in  lieu  of  joining  time shall  be  excluded  but  Saturdays/Sundays/holidays   intervening  such  Special  Casual Leave shall be reckoned as Special Casual Leave. proceeding before the office on to this effect
(7)  Where  an  employee  on  transfer  from  one  station  to  another  does  not  avail  the entire  joining  time  including  special  casual  leave  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (6)  or the  same  has  been  curtailed  due  to  exigencies   of  Board's  Service,  the  unavailed joining time will be added to the Ordinary Leave account of the employee. Overstayal  after joining time
46. An  employee  who  does  not  join  his  post  within  the  joining  time  allowed  to  him shall be deemed to have committed  a breach of Regulation  60. CHAPTER VI CONDUCT,  DISCIPLINE  AND APPEALS Scope of an employee's  service
47. Unless  it be otherwise  distinctly  provided,  the whole  time of an employee  shall  be at  the  disposal  of  the  Board  and  he  shall  serve  the  Board  in  its  business  in  such capacity and at such place as he may from time to time be directed. Liability to abide by Regulations  and Orders
48. Every   employee   shall   conform   to  and   abide   by   these   Regulations   and   shall observe,  comply  with and obey  all orders  and directions  which  may  from time  to time be  given  to  him  by  any  person  or  persons  under  whose  jurisdiction,  superintendence or control he may for the time being be placed. Obligation to maintain secrecy
49. (1)  Every  employee  shall  maintain  strictest  secrecy  regarding  the  Board's  affairs and   shall   not   divulge   or   disclose,   directly   or   indirectly,   any   information   of   a confidential  nature  or  relating  to  the  working  of  the  Board  to  a  member  of  the  public or of the Board's  employees  or to his friends or relatives,  unless compelled  to do so by judicial  or  other  authority,  or  unless  instructed  to  do  so  by  a  superior  officer  in  the discharge of his duties.
(2)  No  employee  shall  make  use  of  any  information  emanating  from  the  Board  or otherwise  which  has  come  to  his  knowledge  in  the  discharge  of  his  official  duties  for his personal benefit or for the benefit of his friends or relatives.
(3)  No  employee  shall  communicate  any  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  to any other person except when required to do so in the course of his official duty.
(4) Every  employee,  including  those  who are on contract/temporary  basis  shall,  before entering  upon  his  duties,  make  a declaration  of fidelity  and  secrecy  in the FORM  – A annexed to these Regulations. Employees  to promote Board's interest
50. (1) Every  employee  shall  serve  the  Board  honestly  and  faithfully  and  shall  use  his utmost   endeavors   to  promote   the  interests   of  the   Board   and   shall   show   utmost courtesy  and  attention  in  all  transactions  and  dealings  with  the  public,  between  the officers of Government  and the Board.
(2) Every employee shall at all times :— (a)  maintain absolute integrity, good conduct and discipline ; (b)  maintain devotion and diligence to duty ; and (c)  do nothing which is unbecoming  of an employee / a public servant.
(3)  No  employee  shall  in  his  official  dealings  with  the  public  or  otherwise  adopt dilatory tactics or wilfully cause delays in disposal of the work assigned to him.
(4)  No  employee,  shall,  in  the  performance  of  his  official  duties  or  in  the  exercise  of powers  conferred  on  him,  act  otherwise  than  in  his  best  judgement  except  when  he  is acting under the direction of his superior.
(5) Every  employee  shall take all possible  steps to ensure the integrity  and devotion  to duty of all persons for the time being under his control and authority. Prohibition  against participation  in politics and standing for election
51. No employee  shall  take  active  part  in politics  or in any  political  demonstration,  or stand  for  election  as  member,  of  a  Municipal  Council,  District  Board  or  any  other Local Body or any Legislative  Body. Prohibition  against joining certain associations  and strikes, etc.
52. No  employee   who   is  not  a  'workman'   within   the   meaning   of  the  Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 shall— (a)   Become  or  continue  to  be a  member  or  officebearer  of,  or  be otherwise  directly or  indirectly  associated  with,  any  trade  union  of  employees  of  the  Board  who are  'workmen'  within  the  meaning  of  that  Act,  or  a  federation  of  such  trade unions; or (b)   Resort  to,  or  in  any  way  abet,  any  form  of  strike  or  participate  in  any  violent, unseemly  or  indecent  demonstration  in connection  with  any  matter  pertaining  to his  conditions  of  service  or  the  conditions  of  service  of  any  other  employee  of the Board. Contributions  to the press
53. (1)  No  employee  may  contribute  to  the  press  without  the  prior  sanction  of  the Competent  Authority  or  without  such  sanction  make  public  or  publish  any  document, paper or information  which may come in his possession in his official capacity.
(2)   No   employee   shall   except   with   the   previous   sanction   of   the   (2)   competent authority  publish  or  cause  to  be  published  any  book  or  any  similar  printed  matter  of which  he  is  the  author  or  not  or  deliver  talk  or  lecture  in  any  public  meeting  or otherwise. Provided  that   no  such   sanction   is   required,   if   such   broadcast   or   contribution   or publication    is  of  a  purely    literary,    artistic,    scientific,    professional,    cultural, educational,  religious or social character. Employee not to seek outside employment
54. No  employee  shall  accept,  solicit,  or  seek  any  outside  employment   or  office, whether stipendiary  or honorary, without the previous sanction of the Chairman. Employment  after retirement
55. (1)  No  employee  of  the  Board  who  has  retired  from  service  shall,  within  a period of  39[one]  years  from  the  date  when  he  finally  ceases  to  be  in  the  Board's  service, accept or  undertake  a  commercial  employment  except  with  the  previous  approval  in writing of the competent authority. Provided  that  an  employee  who  was  permitted  by  the  Competent  authority  to  take  up
13.08.2018. commercial  employment  during  his  leave  preparatory  to  retirement  or  during  refused leave  shall  not  be  required  to  obtain  subsequent  permission  for  his  continuance  in such employment  after retirement.
(2) For the purpose of this Regulation,  "commercial  (2) employment"  means: (a)    Employment  in  any  capacity  including  that  of  an  agent  under  a  Company, Cooperative   Society,   firm   or   individual   engaged   in   trade,   or   commercial, industrial  or  professional  business  and  also  includes  a  directorship  of  such  a company  and partnership  of such  firm  but does  not include  employment  under  a body corporate wholly or substantially  held or controlled  by the Board. (b)   Setting  up  a  practice,  either  independently  or  as  partner  of  a  firm,  as  adviser  or consultant in matters in respect of which the retired officer— (i)  has no professional  qualifications  and the matters  in respect  of which  the practice  is  to  be  set  up  or  is  carried  on  are  relatable  to  his  official knowledge  or experience, or (ii)   the  matters  in  respect  of  which  such  practice  is  to  be  set  up  are  such  as are   likely   to   give   his   clients   an   unfair   advantage   by   reason   of   his previous official position, or (c)  Undertaking  work involving  liaison or contact with the offices or officers  of the Board. society"  includes  the  holding  of  any  office,  whether  elective  or  otherwise  such  as  that of  President,  Chairman,   Manager,   Secretary,  Treasurer  and  the  like,  by  whatever name called in such society.
(3)  Notwithstanding   anything  contained  in  sub-regulation   (1),  no  employee  of  the Board,  including  employees  on  contract  shall  within  a  period  of  40[ o n e ]   years  from the  date  that  he  finally  ceases  to  be  in  the  Board's  service,  accept  or  undertake  an employment  or  be  in  any  manner  associated  with  an  intermediary  registered  with  the Board, except with the prior written approval of the Competent Authority: 41[Provided that the employee would be required to seek fresh approval from the Board in the event of seeking employment with another intermediary registered with the Board or associating in any other manner with another intermediary registered with the Board, within the period of one year:] Provided 42[further that] before  refusing  approval  the  competent  authority  shall  give a hearing   to   the   concerned    employee.    A copy of the decision   taken   shall   be communicated  by the Competent Authority  to the concerned employee. 43[(4)]The competent authority while granting such approval shall satisfy itself regarding the appropriateness    of   granting   the   approval,   having   regard   to   dealing   which the  employee  may  have  had  with  the  said  intermediary  while  in  the  services  of  the Board; and   may   impose   such   conditions   as   may   be   necessary   having   regard the  circumstances  of  the  case  including  44[prohibiting  the  employee  from to representing the  intermediary in  any  manner before the Board.] 45[***]
46[(5)]  The  approval/refusal  under  this  regulation  shall  be  communicated  to  the employee  by  the  Competent  Authority  within  a  period  of  90  days  from  the  date  of receipt  of  the  application  for  such  approval,  failing  which  the  approval  shall  be deemed  to  have been granted. Employment  of family members with an intermediary  registered with the Board
56. (1) No  employee  shall  use  his  position  or influence  directly  or indirectly  to secure employment  in  any  intermediary  registered  with  the  Board,  of  any  person  related, whether  by  blood  or  marriage  to  the  employee  or  to  the  employee's  wife  or  husband, whether such a person is dependent on the employee or not.
(2) Every  employee  shall report  to the competent  authority  in case  his son/daughter  or any  other  member  of  his  family  accepts  employment  in  any  intermediary  registered with  the  Board  with  which  he  has  official  dealings  or  in  any  undertaking  having official dealings with the Board. Giving evidence
57. (1)  Save  as  provided  in  sub-regulation  (3)  no  employee  shall,  except  with  the previous  approval  of  the  competent  authority,  give  evidence  in  connection  with  any enquiry conducted by any person, committee or authority.
(2)  Where  any  approval  has  been  accorded  under  sub-regulation   (1)  no  employee giving   such   evidence   shall   criticize   the   policy   or   any   action   of   the   Central Government  or State Government  or the Board.
(3)  Nothing  in  this  regulation  shall  apply  to  any  evidence  given  (a)  at  any  enquiry before   an   authority   appointed   by   the   Central   Government,   State   Government, Parliament  or  a  State  Legislature;  or  (b)  in  any  judicial  enquiry;  or  (c)  at  any departmental  enquiry ordered by the competent authority. Seeking to influence
58. No   employee   shall   bring   or   attempt   to   bring   any   political   or   other   outside influence  to  bear  upon  any  superior  authority  to  further  his  interests  in  respect  of matters pertaining  to his services in the Board. Part-time work
59. No  employee  shall  undertake  part-time  work  for  a  private  or  public  body  or  a private  person,  or  accept  any  fee  therefor,  without  the  sanction  of  the  competent authority  which  shall  grant  the  sanction  only  in  exceptional  cases  when  it  is  satisfied that  the  work  can  be  undertaken  without  detriment  to  his  official  duties  and responsibilities.  The  competent  authority  may,  in  cases  in  which  it  thinks  fit  to  grant such  sanction,  stipulate  that  any  fees  received  by  the  employee  for  undertaking  the work shall be paid, in whole or in part, to the Board. Employee not to be absent from duty without permission  or be late in attendance
60. (1)  An  employee  shall  not  absent  himself  from  his  duties  without  having  first obtained  the permission  of the competent  authority,  nor shall absent  himself  in case of sickness or accident without submitting a requisite medical certificate. Provided  that  in  the  case  of  temporary  indisposition,   the  production  of  a  medical certificate  may, at the discretion of the competent authority, be dispensed with.
(2) An employee  who absents  himself/herself  from duty without  leave or overstays  his leave,  except  under  circumstances  beyond  his  control  for  which  he  must  tender  a satisfactory  explanation,  shall  not  be entitled  to draw  any  pay  and  allowances  during such absence  or overstayal,  and shall further  be liable to such disciplinary  measures  as the  competent  authority  may  impose.  The  period  of  such  absence  or  overstay  may,  if not   followed   by   discharge   under   Regulation   10(4)   or   compulsory   retirement   or removal  or dismissal  under  Regulation  79,  be treated  as period  spent  on  extraordinary leave.
(3)  An  employee  who  is  habitually  late  in  attendance  shall,  in  addition  to  such  other penalty  as  the  competent  authority  may  deem  fit  to  impose,  have  one  day  of  casual leave forfeited  for every three days he is late in a month. Where such an employee  has no  casual  leave  due  to  him,  the  period  of  leave  to  be  so  forfeited  may  be  treated  as ordinary or extraordinary  leave as the competent authority  may determine. Absence from station
61. An  employee,  if  so  required  by  the  competent  authority,  must  not  absent  himself from his station overnight without obtaining previous sanction of his superior. Acceptance  of gifts
62. (1)  An  employee  shall  not  solicit  or  accept  any  gift  or  permit  any  member  of  his family  or  any  person  acting  in  his  behalf  to  accept  any  gift  from  any  person  with whom  the  employee  is  likely  to  have  official  dealings  either  directly  or  indirectly  or from  any  subordinate  employee.  Trivial  gifts  like  small  packets  of  sweets,  diaries, calendars on the occasion of Diwali and New Year may, however, be exempted. other  service  or  any  other  pecuniary  advantage  when  provided  by  any  person  other than  a near  relative  or a personal  friend  having  no official  dealings  with  the employee or with the Board. Note 1: A casual meal, lift or other social hospitality  shall not be deemed to be a gift. Note 2: An employee  shall avoid acceptance  of lavish or frequent  hospitality  from any individual or concern having official dealings with the employee or with the Board.
(2)  On  occasions  such  as  marriages,  anniversaries,  funerals  or  (2)  religious  functions when  the  making  of  gifts  is  in  conformity  with  the  prevailing  religious  or  social practice,  an  employee  may  accept  gifts  from  his  personal  friends  having  no  official dealing  with  the  employee  or  with  the  Board  but  he  shall  make  a  report  to  the competent authority if the value of such gifts exceeds Rs.10,000.
(3) An employee shall not— (a)  Give or take or abet the giving or taking of dowry; or (b)   Demand  directly  or  indirectly  from  the  parents  or  guardians  of  a  bride  or bridegroom,  as the case may be, any 'dowry' . the Dowry Prohibition  Act, 1961. Private trading
63. No  employee  shall  engage  in  any  commercial  business  or  pursue  it  either  on  his own  account  or  as agent  for  others,  nor  act as  an agent  for  an insurance  company  nor shall he be connected with the formation or management  of a joint stock company. agency  or commission  agency  carried  on or managed  by  a member  of his family  shall be deemed to be a breach of this Regulation. Restrictions  on investments
64. No  employee  shall  make  any  direct  or  indirect  investment  in  equity  and  equity related  instruments  including  convertible   debentures  and  warrants  except  units  of Mutual  Funds,  non  convertible  bonds  and  non-convertible  debentures,  and  in  rights issues in respect of the shares already  held by them. These restrictions  would apply to : (i)  Investments  of the employees ; (ii)   Investments  of  dependent  children  or  other  wards  managed  by  the  employee  as a guardian (iii)   Investment   made   by   spouse,   dependent   children,   dependent   parents   and dependent  parents-in-laws  of the  employee  out  of the  moneys  received  from  the employee. Speculation  in stocks, shares, investments,  etc.
65. (1)  An  employee  shall  not  indulge  in  badla  trading  or  trade,  speculate  in  stock, shares, securities or commodities  of any description.
(2)   No   employee,   shall,   when   in   knowledge    of   unpublished    price   sensitive information,  encourage any person to deal in the securities to which it relates.
(3)  Each  employee  is  deemed  to  be  an  "insider"  within  the  meaning  of  47[clause  (g) of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  2  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations,  2015  and  the  provisions  of the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading) Regulations,  2015]  are  applicable  to  each  employee  of  the  Board.  In  case  of allegations  of  insider  trading,  the  onus  would  be  on  the  employee  to  prove  that  he  is not guilty of insider trading. Movable, immovable  and valuable property
66.  48[(1)  Every employee shall  make  a  declaration   of  his  assets  and  liabilities   as under,- (a)  every  employee,  within  thirty  days  from  the  date  of  joining  the  services  of  the Board  shall  furnish  to  the  Board,  information  as  per  sub-section  (2)  of  section  44  of the Lokpal and Lokayuktas  Act, 2013; (b)  every  employee  in  the  service  of  the  Board  as  on  commencement  of  the  Lokpal and  Lokayuktas  Act,  2013  and  continuing  in  the  service  of  the  Board,  shall  furnish information  to  the  Board,  relating  to  such  assets  and  liabilities  as  per  sub-section  (3) of section 44 of the Lokpal and Lokayuktas  Act, 2013; (c)  every  employee  shall  file  with  the  Board,  on  or  before  31st  July  every  year,  an annual  return  of  such  assets  and  liabilities  as  per  sub-section  (4)  of  section  44  of  the Lokpal and Lokayuktas  Act, 2013.]
(2)   No   employee   shall,   except   with   the   previous   knowledge   of   the   competent authority,   acquire   or   dispose   off   any   immovable   property   by   lease,   mortgage, purchase,  sale, gift or otherwise  either in his own name or in the name  of any member of his family.
(3) Provided  that  the  previous  sanction  of  the  competent  authority  shall  be  obtained by  the employee  if any  such  transaction  is with  a person  having  official  dealings  with the employee. Where  an  employee  enters  into  a  transaction  in  respect  of  movable  property  either  in his  own  name  or  in  the  name  of  the  member  of  his  family,  he  shall  within  30  days from  the  date  of  such  transaction,  report  the  same  to  the  competent  authority,  if  the value  of  such  property  exceeds  such  amount  as  may  be  specified  by  the  Chairman from time to time.
(4) Provided  that  the  previous  sanction  of  the  competent  authority  shall  be  obtained by  the employee  if any  such  transaction  is with  a person  having  official  dealings  with the employee. The  competent  authority  may,  at  any  time,  by  general  or  special  order  require  an employee   to  furnish   within  a  period  specified   in  the  order  a  full  and  complete statement  of  such  movable  or  immovable  property  held  or  acquired  by  him  or  on  his behalf  or  by  any  member  of  his  family  as  may  be  specified  in  the  order.  Such statement  shall,  if  so  required  by  the  competent  authority,  include  the  details  of  the means by which, or the source from which, such property was acquired. Lending and Borrowings
67. No employee shall in his individual capacity - (i)    borrow  or  permit  any  member  of  his  dependent  family  members  to  borrow  or otherwise  place  himself  or  a  member  of  his  dependent  family  members  under  a pecuniary  obligation  to a broker  or a money  lender or a subordinate  employee  of the  Board  or  any  person,  association  of  persons,  firm,  company  or  institution, whether incorporated  or not, having dealings with the Board; (ii)  incur debts at a race meeting; (iii)  lend  money  in  private  capacity  to  a  constituent  of  the  Board  or  have  personal dealings with such constituent in the purchase or sale of bills of exchange, Government paper or any other securities; and (iv)  guarantee  in  his  private  capacity  the  pecuniary  obligations  of  another  person  or agree  to  indemnify  in  such  capacity  another  person  from  loss  except  with  the previous permission of the competent authority; Provided  further  that an employee  may  obtain  a loan  from a cooperative  credit  society of  which  he  is  a  member  or  stand  as  surety  in  respect  of  a  loan  taken  by  another member from a cooperative  credit society of which he is a member. Demonstrations
68. No  employee  shall  engage  himself  or  participate  in  any  demonstration  which  is prejudicial  to the interests  of the Board  sovereignty  and integrity  of India,  the security of  the  State,  friendly  relations  with  foreign  States,  public  order,  decency  or  morality, or which involves contempt of court, defamation  or incitement of an offence. Joining of Association  prejudicial  to the interests of the country
69. No  employee  shall  join,  or continue  to be a member  of  an  association,  the objects or  activities  of  which  are  prejudicial  to  the  interests  of  the  Board  sovereignty  and integrity of India or public order or morality. Raising of subscriptions
70. No  employee  shall,  except  with  the  previous  sanction  of  the  competent  authority, ask  for  or  accept  a  contribution  to  or  otherwise  associate  himself  with  the  raising  of any  funds  or  other  collections  in  cash  or  in  kind  in  pursuance  of  any  objective whatsoever. Not to misuse official position
71. (1) No employee,  shall ; (a)    Ever  encourage  outside  agencies  to  call  on  him  at  his  residence/temporary headquarters  while on tour for discussion on official matters. (b)    In   dealing   with   the   market   intermediaries   and   public   for   seeking   any clarification   on   matters   relating   to   them,   resort   to   oral   clarifications   and personal  discussions  as  far  as  possible  and  written  communication  shall  be  the normal practice. (c)  Use office facilities  like letter heads for writing  to the companies  asking  them to consider  allotment  of  shares/securities  to  their  family  members,  friends  or associates on expiry of the relevant date/s or otherwise. (d)   Ever  involve  in  any  type  of  activities/favours  and  physical  facilities  so  as  to place  himself  in  an  embarrassing  position  in  the  discharge  of  his  duties  with integrity and fairness.
(2) An employee  is strictly  prohibited  from using  his official  position  for any personal favour for himself or his family members or his relatives or friends. 49[Prohibition on participating in auction conducted by the Board in pursuance of recovery proceedings.
71A. No employee shall participate, either directly or indirectly, in an auction conducted by  the  Board  for  sale  of  movable  or  immovable  properties  in  pursuance  of  recovery proceedings  initiated  under  section  28A  of  the  Act  or  section  23JB  of  the  Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or section 19-IB of the Depositories Act, 1996.] Consumption  of Intoxicating  Drinks and Drugs
72. (1)  An  employee  shall  strictly  abide  by  any  law  relating  to  intoxicating  drinks  or drugs in force in any area in which he may happen to be posted for the time being. It is also the duty of the employee to see that—
(2)  (a)  He  takes  due  care  that  the  performance  of  his  duty  is  not  affected  in  any  way by the influence of any intoxicating  drink or drug; (b) He does not appear in public place in a state of intoxication;  and include  clubs  (even  exclusively  meant  for  members  where  it  is  permissible  for  the members  to  invite  non-members  as  guests),  bars  and  restaurants,  public  conveyances and  all  other  places  to which  the  public  have  or  are permitted  to have  access,  whether on payment or otherwise. (c) He does not habitually  use any intoxicating  drink or drug in excess. Employees  in debt
73. (1)   An   employee   shall   so   manage   his   private   affairs   as   to   avoid   habitual indebtedness  or  insolvency.  An  employee  against  whom  any  legal  proceeding  is instituted  for  the  recovery  of  any  debt  due  from  him  or  for  adjudging  him  as  an insolvent,   shall   forthwith   report   the   full   facts   of   the   legal   proceedings   to   the competent authority.
(2)  An  employee  who  is  in  debt  shall  furnish  to  the  competent  authority  a  signed statement  of  his  position  half-yearly  on  the  30th  June  and  31st  December  and  shall indicate  in  the  statement  the  steps  he  is  taking  to  rectify  his  position.  An  employee who   makes   a  false   statement   under   this   Regulation   or   who   fails   to  submit   the specified  statement  or  appears  unable  to  liquidate  his  debts  within  a  reasonable  time or  applies  for  the  protection  of  an  insolvency  court  shall  be  liable  to  disciplinary action. be  in  debt  if  his  total  liabilities  exclusive  of  those  which  are  fully  secured  exceed  his substantive  pay for twelve months. within  a  reasonable  time  if  it  appears  having  regard  to  his  personal  resources  and unavoidable  current  expenses  that  he  will  not  cease  to  be  in  debt  within  a  period  of two years. Employees  arrested for debt or on criminal charge
74. (1) An  employee  who  is arrested  for  debt  or on a criminal  charge  or is detained  in pursuance  of  any  process  of  law  may,  if  so  directed  by  the  competent  authority,  be considered  as being  or having  been  under  suspension  from  the date of his arrest  or, as the  case  may  be,  of  his  detention,  upto  such  date  or  during  such  other  period  as  the competent  authority  may  direct.  In  respect  of  the  period  in  regard  to  which  he  is  so treated,  he  shall  be  allowed  the  payment  admissible  to  an  employee  under  suspension under sub-regulation  (6) of Regulation  86.
(2)  Any  payment  made  to  an  employee  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  subject  to adjustment  of  his  pay  and  allowances  which  shall  be  made  according  to  the circumstances  of  the  case  and  in the light  of  the  decision  as to whether  such  period  is to be accounted for as a period of duty or leave; Provided that full pay and allowances  will be admissible only if the employee — (a)  is treated as on duty during such period; and (b)   is  acquitted  of  all  blame  or  satisfies  the  competent  authority,  in  the  case  of  his release  from  detention  being  set  aside  by  a  competent  court,  that  he  had  not been guilty of improper conduct in his detention.
(3) An employee  shall be liable to dismissal  or to any of the other penalties  referred  to in  Regulation  79  if  he  is  committed  to  prison  for  debt  or  is  convicted  for  an  offence which,  in the opinion  of the competent  authority,  either involves  gross  moral  turpitude or  has  a  bearing  on  any  of  the  affairs  of  the  Board  or  on  the  discharge  by  the employee  of  his  /  her  duties  with  the  Board;  the  opinion  in  this  respect  of  the competent  authority  shall  be  conclusive  and  binding  on  the  employee.  Such  dismissal or  other  penalty  may  be  imposed  as  from  the  date  of  his  committal  to  prison  or conviction  and nothing in Regulation 80 and 82 shall apply to such imposition.
(4) Where  an employee  has been  dismissed  in pursuance  of sub-regulation  (3) and the relative  conviction  is  set  aside  by  a  higher  court  and  the  employee  is  acquitted,  he shall be reinstated in service. conviction by the lowest court or any appellate court.
(5)  Where  the  absence  of  an  employee  from  duty  without  leave  or  his  overstayal  is due  to his  having  been  arrested  for  debt  or on a criminal  charge  or to his  having  been detained  in  pursuance  of  any  process  of  law,  the  provisions  of  Regulation  60  shall also apply  and for the purposes  of that Regulation  as so applied,  the employee  shall be treated  as  having  absented  himself  without  leave  or,  as  the  case  may  be,  overstayed, otherwise than under circumstances  beyond his control. Vindication  of Acts and character of employee
75. (1)   No   employee   shall,   except   with   the   previous   sanction   of   the   competent authority  have  recourse  to any  Court  or to the press  for  the  vindication  of any  official act which has been the subject  matter of adverse  criticism  or an attack of a defamatory character.
(2)   Nothing   in   this   regulation   shall   be   deemed   to   prohibit   an   employee   from vindicating  his private  character  or any  act done  by him in private  capacity  and  where any  action  for  vindicating  his  private  character  or  any  act  done  by  him  in  private capacity   is  taken,  the  employee  shall  submit  a  report  to  the  competent  authority regarding such action. Not to address appeals, representations,  petitions to outside authority  or person
76. No  employee  shall  address  any  appeal,  representation  or  petition  to  any  outside authority  or  person  in  respect  of  a  matter  pertaining  to  the  employees  service  in  the Board.  Addressing  such  appeals,  representations  or petitions  shall  be deemed  a breach of discipline. Criticism of Board or Government
77. No  employee  shall,  in  any  radio  broadcast,  telecast  through  any  electronic  media or  any  document  published  in  his  own  name  or  anonymously,  pseudonymously  or  in the  name  of  any  other  person  or  in  any  communication  to  the  press  or  in  any  public utterance,  make  any  statement  of  fact  or  opinion  which  has  the  effect  of  an  adverse criticism of any current or recent policy or action of the Board or Government. Provided  that  nothing  in  this  regulation  shall  apply  to  any  statements  made  or  views expressed  by  an  employee  in  his  official  capacity  or  in  the  due  performance  of  the duties assigned to him. Not to misuse residential accommodation  or other facilities
78. (1)  An  employee  shall  not  misuse  the  residential  accommodation   or  any  other facility or concession granted by the Board.
(2)  Save  as  otherwise  expressly  permitted  by  the  Board,  no  employee  shall,  sub-let, lease  or  otherwise  allow  occupation  by  any  other  person  of  Board's  residential accommodation  which has been allotted to him.
(3)  An  employee  shall,  after  the  determination  /  cancellation  of  his  allotment  of residential  accommodation  vacate  the  same  within  the  time  limit  specified  by  the allotting authority. 50[Prohibition  of Sexual Harassment  of Women Employee  at Work Place
78A. (1)  No  employee  shall  indulge  in,  any  act  of  sexual  harassment  of  any  women employee at the work place.
(2)  For  the  purpose  of  sub-regulation  (1),  sexual  harassment  shall  mean  unwelcome sexually determined  behaviour,  whether directly or by implication,  including:— (a)  physical contact and advances; (b)  a demand or request for sexual favours; (c)  sexually coloured remarks: (d)  showing pornography;  or (e)   any  other  unwelcome   'physical,   'verbal,  or  non-verbal   conduct  of  a  sexual nature,
(3) Any  complaint  of violation  of sub-regulation  (1) shall  be dealt  by the Complaints Committee  set up by the Board, which shall (i)  be chaired by a workman; (ii)   consist   of  at  least   one  outsider   who  is  familiar   with  the  issue   of  sexual harassment;  and (iii) be composed in such a manner that at least one half of its members are women.
(4)  The  Complaints   Committee   may   evolve   its  own  procedure   for  dealing   with complaints received by it.
(5)  Without  prejudice  to  the  provisions  contained  in  sub-regulation  (4),  where  the Complaints  Committee  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  complaint  is  motivated  or  frivolous, it may close the complaint under intimation to the complainant  and the Board.
(6)  When  the  Complaints  Committee  is  of  the  opinion  that  there  are  grounds  for inquiring  into  the truth  of any  such  complaint,  it shall  initiate  an inquiry  into the truth thereof, after recording the reasons therefor.
(7)  Any  inquiry   initiated   by  the  Complaints   Committee   under  sub-regulation   (6) pursuant  to  any  such  complaint  shall  be  deemed  to  be  an  inquiry  within  the  meaning of regulation  80 and accordingly. (i)   the  Complaints  Committee  shall  be  deemed  to  be  an  inquiry  officer  appointed with  respect  to  such  complaint  and  shall  have  all  the  powers,  functions  and duties of an inquiry officer as provided in that regulation; (ii)   the  proceedings   shall  be  held,   as  far  as  may   be,  in  accordance   with  that regulation, subject to the following modifications,  namely:— (a)   that  the  charges  shall  be  framed  and  communicated  to  the  employee  by the  Complaints  Committee  (instead  of  the  competent  authority)  under sub-regulation  (3) thereof; and (c)   the  written  statement  of  defence  of  the  employee  shall  be  sent  to  the Complaints  Committee  (instead of to the competent authority). (iii)  the  findings  of  the  Complaints  Committee  shall  be  in  the  form  of  a  report, which  complies  with  the  requirements  of  sub-regulation  (21)  of  regulation  80 and such report shall be deemed  to be an inquiry  report for the purposes  of these regulations:
(8)  Nothing  contained  in  this  regulation  shall  be  construed  to  prejudice  the  powers  of the Complaints  Committee  to provide counseling  or other support service.] Penalties
79. Without  prejudice  to  the  other  provisions  of  these  Regulations,  an  employee  who commits   a   breach   of   any   regulation   of   the   Board   or   who   displays   negligence, inefficiency  or indolence,  or who knowingly  does anything  detrimental  to the interests of the Board  or in conflict  with its instructions,  or who commits  a breach  of discipline or is guilty of any other act of misconduct,  shall be liable to the following penalties: Minor penalties
(1) (a) Censure; (b) Withholding  of promotion; (c) Recovery  from  pay of the whole  or part  of any  pecuniary  loss  caused  to the Board by the employee by negligence or breach of orders; (d)  Reduction  to  a  lower  stage  in  the  time  scale  of  pay  for  a  period  not  exceeding three years without cumulative  effect ; (e) Withholding  of increments  of pay; Major penalties (2)(a)  Save  as  provided  for  in  clause  (d)  of  Sub-regulation  (1),  reduction  to  a  lower stage  in  the  time  scale  of  pay  for  a  specified  period  with  further  directions  as  to whether  or  not  the  employee  shall  earn  increments  of  pay  during  the  period  of  such reduction  and  whether  on  the  expiry  of  such  period,  the  reduction  shall  or  shall  not have the effect of postponing  the future increments of his pay. (b)  Reduction   to  a  lower  time  scale  of  pay,  grade,  post  or  service  which  shall ordinarily  be  a  bar  to  the  promotion  of  the  employee  to  the  time  scale  of  pay,  grade, post   or   service   from   which   he   was   reduced,   with   or   without   further   directions regarding    conditions    of  restoration    to  the  grade  or  post  or  service  from  which theemployee  was  reduced  and  (c)  his  seniority  and  pay  on  such  restoration  to  that scale of pay, grade, post or service. (c) Compulsory  retirement ; (d) Removal  from service which shall not be a disqualification  for future employment ; (e)  Dismissal  from  service  which  shall  ordinarily  be  a  disqualification   for  future employment. regulation namely :— (i)   Withholding   of  one  or  more  increments  of  an  employee  on  account  of  his failure  to  pass  a  specified  departmental  test  or  examination  in  accordance  with the terms of appointment  to the post which he holds. (ii)   Stoppage  of  pay  of  an  employee  at  the  efficiency  bar  in  a  time  scale,  on  the ground of his unfitness to cross the bar ; (iii)  Non-promotion  whether  in an officiating  capacity  or otherwise,  of an employee, to  a  higher  grade  or  post  for  which  he  may  be  eligible  for  consideration  but  for which he is found unsuitable  after consideration  of his case ; (iv)  Reversion  to a lower  grade  or post,  of an employee  officiating  in a higher  grade or post,  on the ground  that  he is considered,  after  trial,  to be unsuitable  for such higher grade or post, or on administrative  grounds unconnected  with his conduct ; (v)   Reversion  to his  previous  grade  or post,  of an  employee  appointed  on  probation to  another  grade  or  post,  during  or  at  the  end  of  the  period  of  probation,  in accordance  with  the terms  of his appointment  or regulations  or orders  governing such probation ; (vi) Termination  of the service :— (a)  of an employee  appointed  on probation,  during or at the end of the period of  probation,  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  his  appointment,  or  the regulations  or orders governing such probation ; (b)   of an employee  appointed  in a temporary  capacity  otherwise  than  under  a contract  or  agreement,  on  the  expiration  of  the  period  for  which  he  was appointed, or earlier in accordance  with the terms of his appointment; (c)   of  an  employee  appointed  under  a  contract  or  agreement,  in  accordance with the terms of such contract or agreement ; and (d)  of an employee on abolition of post. (vii)  Termination   of  employment   of  an  employee   on  medical   grounds,   if  he  is declared unfit to continue in the Board's service by the Board's Medical Officer; (viii) Retirement of an employee in accordance  with the proviso to Regulation 13(1). Procedure for imposing major penalties
80. (1)  No  order  imposing  any  of  the  major  penalties  specified  in  regulation  79  (2) shall be made except after an inquiry is held in accordance  with this regulation.
(2)  Whenever,  the  Competent  Authority  is  of  the  opinion  that  there  are  grounds  for inquiring  into  the  truth  of  any  imputation  of  misconduct  or  misbehaviour  against  an employee,  it  may  itself  inquire  into  or  appoint  any  other  officer  51[or  any  person  not below  the  rank  of  retired  District  Judge,  retired  High  Court  Judge,  retired  Joint Secretary  to  the  Government  of  India,  retired  Secretary  to  any  State  Government  or retired   Executive   Director   of  any   Financial   Institution/Nationalised   Bank/Reserve Bank  of  India]  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  inquiry  officer)  to  inquiry  into  the  truth thereof. to constitute a misconduct. The  enquiry  under  this  regulation,  shall  be  done,  in  case  the  employee  against  whom proceeding  is  taken  is  an  officer,  by  any  officer  who  is  in  a  grade  higher  than  such employee and in the case of other employees any officer. sub- regulation  (8) to sub-regulation  (21) to the inquiry  Officer  shall be construed  as a reference to Competent Authority
(3)  Where  it  is  proposed  to  hold  an  inquiry,  the  Competent  Authority  shall  frame definite  and  distinct  charges  on  the  basis  of  the  allegation  against  the  employee  and the  articles  of  charge,  together  with  a  statement  of  the  allegations,  on  which  they  are based,  shall  be  communicated  in  writing  to  the  employee,  who  shall  be  required  to submit   within   such   time   as   may   be  specified   by   the   Competent   Authority   (not exceeding  15  days),  or  within  such  extended  time  as  may  be  granted  by  the  said Authority, a written statement of his defence.
(4)  On  receipt  of  the  written  statement  of  the  employee,  or  if  no  such  statement  is received   within   the   time   specified,   an   inquiry   may   be   held   by   the   Competent Authority  itself,  or  if  it  considers  in  necessary  so  to  do  appoint  under  sub-regulation
(2) an Inquiry Officer for the purpose. Provided  that  it  may  not  be  necessary  to  hold  an  inquiry  in  respect  of  the  articles  of charge  admitted  by  the  employee  in  his  written  statement  but  shall  be  necessary  to record its findings on each such charge.
(5) The Competent  Authority  shall,  where  it is not the Inquiry  Officer,  forward  to the Inquiry Officer; (i)  a copy of the articles of charges and statements  of imputations  of misconduct  or misbehaviour; (ii)  a copy of the written statement of defence, if any submitted by the employee; (iii)  a  list  of  documents  by  which  and  list  of  witnesses  by  whom  the  articles  of charge are proposed to be substantiated; (iv) a copy of statements  of the witnesses, if any; (v)  evidence providing the delivery of articles of charge under sub-regulation  (3); (vi) a copy of the order appointing  the 'Presenting  Officer'  it terms of sub-regulation
(6). (6)  Where  the  Competent  Authority  itself  inquires  or  appoints  an  inquiring  authority for  holding  an  inquiry,  it  may,  by  an  order,  appoint  an  officer  to  be  known  as  the "Presenting  Officer"  to  present  on  its  behalf  the  case  in  support  of  the  articles  of charge.
(7) The  employee  may  take  the  assistance  of  any  other  employee  but  may  not  engage a  legal  practitioner,  for  the  purpose,  unless  the  presenting  officer  appointed  by  the Competent  Authority,  is  a  legal  practitioner  or  Competent  Authority  having  regard  to the circumstances  of the case, so permits. (8)(a)  The  Inquiry  Officer  shall  by  notice  in  writing  specify  the  day  on  which  the employee shall appear in person before the Inquiry Officer. (b)  On  the  date  fixed  by  the  Inquiry  Officer,  the  employee  shall  appear  before  the Inquiry Officer at the time, place and date specified in the notice. (c)  The  Inquiry  Officer  shall  ask  the  employee  whether  he  pleads  guilty  or  as  any defence  to  make  and  if  he  pleads  guilty  to  any  of  the  Articles  of  charge,  the  Inquiry Officer  shall  record  the  plea,  sign  the record  and  obtain  the signature  of the  employee concerned thereon. (d)  The  Inquiry  Officer  shall  return  a  finding  of  guilty  in  respect  of  those  articles  of charge to which the employee concerned pleads guilty.
(9) If the employee  does  not plead  guilty,  the Inquiry  Officer  shall adjourn  the case  to a later date not exceeding 30 days.
(10)  (a)  The  Inquiry  Officer  shall,  where  the  employee  does  not  admit  all  or  any  of the  articles  of  charge,  furnish  to  such  employee  a  list  of  documents  by  which,  and  a list of witness by whom, the articles of charge are proposed to be proved. (b)  The  Inquiry  Officer  shall  also  record  an  order  that  the  employee  may  for  the purpose of preparing his defence. (i)   inspect  within  five  days  of  the  order  or  within  such  further  time  not  exceeding five days as the inquiring officer may allow, the documents listed; (ii)  submit a list of documents and witness that he want for the inquiry; (iii)  be  supplied  with  copies  of  statements  or  witnesses  to  be  relied  upon,  if  any, recorded  earlier  and  the  Inquiry  Officer  shall  furnish  such  copies  not  later  than three  days  before  the commencement  of the examination  of the witnesses  by the Inquiry Officer; (iv)  give  a  notice  within  ten  days  of  the  order  or  within  such  further  time  not exceeding  ten  days  as  the  inquiring  officer  may  allow  for  the  discovery  or production of the documents referred to in item (ii). Note  : The  relevancy  of  the  documents  and  the  examination  of  the  witnesses  referred to in sub-clause (ii) shall be given by the employee concerned.
(11)  The  inquiry  officer  shall,  on  receipt  of the  notice  for  the  discovery  or  production of  the  documents,   forward  the  same  or  copies  thereof  to  the  authority  in  whose custody  or  possession  the  documents  are  kept  with  a  requisition  for  the  production  of the documents on such date as may be specified.
(12)  On  the  receipt  of  the  requisition  under  sub  regulation  (11),  the  authority  having the  custody  or  possession  of  the  requisitioned  documents  shall  arrange  to  produce  the same   before   the   Inquiry   Officer   on   the   date,   place   and   time   specified   in   the requisition; Provided that  the  authority   having  the  custody  or  possession   of  the  requisitioned documents  may  claim  privilege  if  the  production  of  such  documents  will  be  against the public  interest or the interest  of the Board.  In that event, it shall inform the Inquiry Officer accordingly.
(13)  On the date  fixed  for the inquiry,  the oral or documentary  evidence  by which  the articles  of  charge  are  proposed  to  be  proved  shall  be  produced  by  or  on  behalf  of  the Competent  Authority. The witnesses produced by the Presenting  Officer shall be examined by the Presenting Officer and may be cross-examined  by or on behalf of the employee. The  Presenting  Officer  shall  be  entitled  to  re-examine  his  witnesses  on  any  points  on which  they have been cross  – examined,  but not on a new matter,  without  the leave  of the inquiry officer. The inquiry officer may also put such questions to the witnesses.
(14)  Before  the  close  of  the  case,  in  support  of  the  charges,  the  Inquiry  Officer  may, in  its  discretion,  allow  the  Presenting  Officer  to  produce  evidence  not  included  in chargesheet  or may itself call for new evidence  or recall or re-examine  any witness.  In such   case   the   employee   shall   be   given   opportunity   to   inspect   the   documentary evidence  before  it is taken  on  record,  or  to  cross-examine  a  witness,  who  has  been  so summoned.   The   Inquiry   Officer   may   also   allow   the   employee   to   produce   new evidence,  if  it  is  of  opinion  that  the  production  of  such  evidence  is  necessary  in  the interests of justice.
(15) When  the case in support  of the charges  is closed,  the employee  may  be required to  state  his  defence,  orally  or  in  writing,  as  he  may  prefer.  If  the  defence  is  made orally,  it  shall  be  recorded  and  the  employee  shall  be  required  to  sign  the  record.  In either  case  a copy  of the statement  of defence  shall be given  to the Presenting  officer, if any, appointed.
(16)  The  evidence  on  behalf  of  the  employee  shall  then  be  produced.  The  employee may  examine  himself  in  his  own  behalf,  if  he  so  prefers.  The  witnesses  produced  by the employee  shall  then  be examined  by the employee  and  may  be cross-examined  by the  Presenting   Officer.  The  employee   shall  be  entitled  to  re-examine   any  of  his witnesses  on any points  on which  they  have been  cross-examined,  but not on any  new matter without the leave of the Inquiry Officer.
(17) The inquiry  officer  may, after the officer  employee  closes his evidence,  and shall, if  the  officer  employee  has  not  got  himself  examined,  generally  question  him  on  the circumstances  appearing  against  him  in  the  evidence  for  the  purpose  of  enabling  the employee to explain any circumstances  appearing in the evidence against him.
(18)  After  the  completion  of  the  production  of  the  evidence,  the  employee  and  the Presenting  Officer  may  file  written  briefs  of  their  respective  cases  within  15  days  of the date of completion  of the production of evidence.
(19)  If  the  employee  does  not  submit  the  written  statement  of  defence  referred  to  in sub-regulation  (3) on or before  the date specified  for the purpose or does not appear  in person,  or  through  the  assisting  officer  or  otherwise  fails  or  refuses  to  comply  with any  of  the  provisions  of  these  regulations,  the  Inquiry  Officer  may  hold  the  inquiry ex-parte.
(20)  Whenever  any  Inquiry  Officer,  after  having  heard  and  recorded  the  whole  or  any part  of  the  evidence  in  an  inquiry  ceases  to  exercise  jurisdiction   therein,  and  is succeeded   by   another   Inquiry   Officer   which   has,   and   which   exercises,   such jurisdiction,  the Inquiry  Officer  so succeeding  may  act on the evidence  so recorded  by its predecessor,  or partly recorded by its predecessor  and partly recorded by itself: Provided  that   if   the   succeeding   Inquiry   Officer   is   of   the   opinion   that   further examination  of  any  of  the  witnesses  whose  evidence  has  already  been  recorded  is necessary  in  the  interest  of  justice,  it  may  recall,  examine,  cross-examine  and  re- examine any such witnesses as herein before provided.
(21)  (i)  On  the  conclusion  of  the  inquiry  the  Inquiry  Officer  shall  prepare  a  report which shall contain the following : (a)    a   gist   of   the   articles   of   charge   and   the   statement   of   the   imputations   of misconduct  or misbehaviour; (b)  a gist of the defence of the employee in respect of each article of charge; (c)  an assessment  of the evidence in respect of each article of charge; (d)  the findings on each article of charge and the reasons therefor establish  any  article  of  charge  different  from  the  original  article  of  charge,  it  may record its findings on such article of charge. Provided that  the  findings  on  such  article  of  charge  shall  be  recorded  unless  the employee  has either  admitted  the facts  on which  such  article  of charge  is based  or has had a reasonable opportunity  of defending himself against such article of charge. (ii)  The  Inquiry  Officer,  where  it  is  not  itself  the  Competent  Authority,  shall  forward to the Competent Authority  the records of inquiry which shall include— (a)  the report of the inquiry prepared by it under clause (i); (b)  the  written  statement  of defence,  if any,  submitted  by  the  employee  referred  to in sub regulation (15); (c)  the oral and documentary  evidence produced in the course of the inquiry; (d)  written briefs referred to in sub-regulation  (18), if any, and (e)  the orders,  if any,  made  by  the Competent  Authority  and the Inquiry  Officer  in regard to the inquiry. Action on the inquiry report
81. (1)  The  Competent   Authority,  if  it  is  not  itself  the  Inquiry  Officer,  may,  for reasons to be recorded  by it in writing, remit the case to the inquiry  for fresh or further inquiry  and  report  and  the  Inquiry  Officer  shall  thereupon  proceed  to  hold  the  further inquiry according to the provisions of regulation 80 as far as may be.
(2)  The  Competent  Authority,  shall,  if  it  disagrees  with  the  findings  of  the  Inquiry Officer  on  any  article  of  charge,  record  its  reasons  for  such  disagreement  and  record its  own  findings  on  such  charge,  if  the  evidence  on  record  is  sufficient   for  the purpose.
(3)  If  the  Competent  Authority,  having  regard  to  the  findings  on  all  or  any  of  the articles  of charge,  is of the opinion  that  any  of the penalties  specified  in regulation  79 should  be  imposed  on  the  employee  it  shall  notwithstanding  anything  contained  in regulation 82, make an order imposing such penalty.
(4)  If  the  Competent  Authority  having  regard  to  its  findings  on  all  or  any  of  the articles  of  charge,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no  penalty  is  called  for,  it  may  pass  an  order exonerating  the employee concerned. Procedure for imposing minor penalties
82. (1) Where  it is proposed  to impose  any  of the  minor  penalties  specified  in clauses (a)  to  (e)  of  regulation  79(1),  the  employee  concerned  shall  be  informed  in  writing  of the  imputations  of  lapses  against  him  and  given  an  opportunity  to  submit  his  written statement   of   defence   within   a   specified   period   not   exceeding   15   days   or   such extended  period  as  may  be  granted  by  the  Competent  Authority  and  the  defence statement,  if  any,  submitted  by  the  employee  shall  be  taken  into  consideration  by  the Competent Authority  before passing orders.
(2)  Where  however,  the  Competent  Authority  is  satisfied  that  an  inquiry  is  necessary, it shall  follow  the procedure  for  imposing  a major  penalty  as laid  down  in regulation
80. (3) The record of the proceedings  in such cases shall include: (a)  A copy of the statement of imputations  of lapses furnished to the employee; (b)  The defence statement,  if any, of the employee;  and (c)  The orders of the Competent Authority  together with the reasons therefor. Communication  of orders
83. Orders  made  by  the  Competent  Authority  under  regulation  81  or  regulation  82 shall  be  communicated  to  the  employee  concerned,  who  shall  also  be  supplied  with  a copy of the report of inquiry, if any. Common Proceedings
84. Where  two  or  more  employees  are  concerned  in  a  case,  the  Competent  Authority may  make  an order  directing  that the disciplinary  proceedings  against  all of them  may be taken in a common proceedings. Special procedure in certain cases
85. Notwithstanding   anything   contained   in   Regulation   80   or   Regulation   81   or Regulation  82,  the  Competent  Authority  may  impose  any  of  the  penalties  specified  in Regulation  79  if  the  facts  on  the  basis  of  which  action  is  to  be  taken  have  been established  in a Court  of Law  or  Court  Martial  or  where  the  employee  has  absconded or  where  it  is  for  any  other  reason  impracticable  to  communicate  with  him  or  where there  are  other  difficulties  in observing  the  requirements  contained  in Regulation  80, 81  and  82  and  the  requirements  can  be  waived  without  injustice  to  the  employee.  In every  case  where  all  or  any  of  the  requirements  of  Regulation  80,  81  and  82  are waived, the reasons for so doing shall be recorded in writing. Suspension
86. (1) An employee may be placed under suspension by the competent  authority :— (a)  Where a disciplinary  proceeding  against him is contemplated  or is pending ; or (b)    Where   a   case   against   him   in   respect   of   any   criminal   offence   is   under investigation,  inquiry or trial.
(2)  An  employee  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  placed  under  suspension  by  an  order of the competent authority— (a)   with  effect  from  the  date  of  his  detention,  if  he  is  detained  in  custody,  whether on a criminal charge or otherwise, for a period exceeding 48 hours ; (b)  with effect from the date of his conviction,  if, in the event of a conviction  for an offence,   he   is   sentenced   to   a   term   of   imprisonment   and   is   forthwith   not dismissed or removed or compulsorily  retired consequent  to such conviction. shall  be  computed  from  the  commencement  of  the  imprisonment  after  the  conviction and  for  that  purpose,  intermittent  periods  of  imprisonment,  if  any,  shall  be  taken  into account.
(3)  Where  a  penalty  of  dismissal,  removal  or  compulsory  retirement  from  service imposed  upon  an  employee  under  suspension  is  set  aside  in  appeal  under  these regulations  and  the  case  is  remitted  for  further  enquiry  or  action  or  with  any  other directions,  the  order  of  his  suspension  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  continued  in force  on  and  from  the  date  of  original  order  of  dismissal,  removal  or  compulsory retirement and shall remain in force until further orders.
(4)  Where  a  penalty  of  dismissal  or  removal  or  compulsory  retirement  from  service imposed  upon  an employee  is a set aside  or declared  or rendered  void  in consequence of   or   by   a   decision   of   a   Court   of   Law   and   the   Competent   Authority,   on   a consideration  of a circumstances  of the case,  decides  to hold  a further  enquiry  against him  on  the  allegations  on  which  a  penalty  of  dismissal,  removal  or  compulsory retirement  was  originally  imposed,  the employee  shall be deemed  to have  been  placed under  suspension  by  the  Competent  Authority  from  the  date  of  the  original  order  of dismissal,  removal  or  compulsory  retirement  and  shall  continue  to  remain  under suspension  until further orders. Provided  that  no  such  further  enquiry  shall  be  ordered  unless  it  is  intended  to  meet  a situation  where  the  Court  has  passed  an  order  purely  on  technical  grounds  without going into the merits of the case.
(5) An  order  of  suspension  made  or  deemed  to  have  been  made  under  this  regulation may  at  any  time  be  modified  or  revoked  by  the  Competent  Authority  which  made  or is deemed to have made the order. Subsistence  allowance
(6)  During  such  suspension,  he  shall  receive  subsistence  allowance  equal  to  (i)  his substantive  pay  plus  fifty  percent  of  allowances  thereon,  for  the  first  six  months  of suspension;   and  (ii)  his  substantive   pay  plus  seventy-five   per  cent  of  allowances thereon for the period of suspension  beyond six months. Provided  that  the  enhanced  rate  of  subsistence  allowance  specified  under  sub-clause (ii) shall be admissible  only if the enquiry  is not delayed  for reasons  attributable  to the concerned employee or any of his representatives. Provided  further  that if no penalty  under Regulation  79 is imposed,  the employee  shall be  refunded  the  difference  between  the  subsistence  allowance  and  the  emoluments which  he  would  have  received  but  for  such  suspension,  for  the  period  he  was  under suspension,  and  that,  if  a  penalty  is  imposed  on  him  under  Regulation  79,  no  order shall   be   passed   which   shall   have   the   effect   of   compelling   him   to   refund   such subsistence  allowance.  The  period  during  which  an  employee  is  under  suspension shall,  if  he  is  not  dismissed  or  removed  or  compulsorily   retired  from  service,  be treated  as  period  spent  on  duty  or  leave  as  the  Competent  Authority  who  passes  the final order may direct. Vigilance cases
87. Notwithstanding   anything   contained   in   Regulations   79   to   86   or   any   other Regulation,  the  following  additional  provisions  shall  apply  where  it is  alleged  that  an employee has been guilty of corrupt practices, namely:
(1)  Where  it  is  alleged  that  an  employee  is  possessed  of  disproportionate  assets  or that  he  has  committed  an  act  of  criminal  misconduct  or  where  the  investigation and  proof  of  the  allegation  would  require  the  evidence  of  persons,  who  are  not employees  of the  Board  or where,  in the opinion  of the  competent  authority,  the investigation  into  the  allegations  may  with  the  approval  of  the  Chairman,  be entrusted  to  the  Central  Bureau  of  Investigation  or  the  Central  Vigilance Commission  or any other such agency as may be approved by the Chairman.
(2)  If  after  considering  the  report  of  the  investigation,  the  competent  authority  is satisfied  that  there  is  a  prima  facie  case  for  instituting  disciplinary  proceedings against   the   employee,   it   may   send   the   investigation   report   to   the   Central Vigilance   Commission   or   such   other   authority   as   may   be   decided   by   the Chairman  from  time  to  time  in  this  behalf,  for  its  advice  whether  disciplinary proceedings  should be taken against the employee concerned;
(3)  If  after  considering  the  advice  of  the  Central  Vigilance  Commission  or  other authority,  as  the  case  may  be,  the  competent  authority  is  of  the  opinion  that disciplinary  proceedings  should  be  instituted  against  the  employee  concerned, then  notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  Regulation  80(2),  the  enquiry  under  this Regulation  may  be  entrusted  to  a  Commissioner  for  Departmental  Enquiries  or other  person  who  may  be  nominated  by  the  Central  Vigilance  Commission  for this purpose.
(4)  The  Inquiry  Officer  shall  submit  his  report  to  the  competent  authority  and  the report shall  be forwarded  by the Chairman  to the Central  Vigilance  Commission for  its  advice  as  to  whether  the  charge  or  charges  as  the  case  may  be,  can  be considered  to  have  been  established  and  the  penalty  or  penalties  to  be  imposed under  Regulation  79  hereof.  The  penalty  or  penalties  to  be  imposed  shall  be decided  by  the  competent  authority  after  considering  the  advice  of  the  Central Vigilance Commission. committed  an act of criminal  misconduct  as defined  in Section  13 of the Prevention  of Corruption  Act,  1988  or  he  has  acted  for  an  inproper  purpose  or  in  a  corrupt  manner or  had  exercised  or  refrained  from  exercising  his  powers  with  an  improper  or  corrupt motive. Appeal
88. (1)  An  employee  may  appeal  against  an  order  imposing  upon  him  any  of  the penalties  specified  in  Regulation  79  or  order  of  suspension  under  Regulation  86.  The appeal shall lie to the Appellate Authority. Note  : For  the  purpose  of  this  regulation  "Appellate  Authority"  means  the  Board,  in case  the  Chairman  is  the  competent  authority;  Chairman  or  whole-  time  member  of the  Board,  in  case  the  Executive  Director  is  the  competent  authority  and  Executive Director concerned in all other cases.
(2) Every appeal shall comply with the following requirements: (a)  it shall  be written  in Hindi  or English  or if not written  in Hindi  be accompanied by a translated copy in Hindi and shall be signed. (b)    it  shall  be  couched  in  polite  and  respectful  language  and  shall  be  free  from unnecessary  padding or superfluous  verbiage. (c)    it  shall  contain  all  material  statements  and  arguments  relied  on  and  shall  be complete in itself. (d)  it shall specify the relief desired.
(3)  An  appeal  shall  be  preferred  to  the  appellate  authority  within  45  days  from  the date  of  receipt  of  the  order  appealed  against.  The  Appellate  Authority  shall  consider whether  the  findings  are  justified  or  whether  the  penalty  is  excessive  or  inadequate and  pass  appropriate  orders.  The  Appellate  Authority  may  pass  an  order  confirming, enhancing,  reducing  or  setting  aside  the  penalty  or  remitting  the  case  to  the  authority which  imposed  the  penalty  or  to  any  other  authority  with  such  direction  as  it  may deem fit in the circumstances  of the case Provided that— (i)   if  the  enhanced  penalty  which  the  Appellate  Authority  proposed  to  impose  is  a major  penalty  specified  in  Regulation  79  (2)  and  an  inquiry  as  provided  in regulation  80  has  not  already  been  held  in  the  case,  the  Appellate  Authority shall  direct  that  such  an  inquiry  be  held  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of regulation  80  and  thereafter  consider  the  record  of  the  inquiry  and  pass  such orders as it may deem proper. (ii)  if the Appellate  Authority  decides  to enhance  the punishment  but an inquiry  has already  been  held  as  provided  in  regulation  80,  the  Appellate  Authority  shall give  a  show  cause  notice  to  the  employee  as  to  why  the  enhanced  penalty should  not  be  imposed  upon  him  and  shall  pass  final  order  after  taking  into account the representation,  if any, submitted by the employee. CHAPTER VII MISCELLANEOUS Medical aid facilities
89. (1) Medical  aid and facilities  shall be provided  by the Board  for its employees  and such  of  their  dependents  in  accordance  with  such  guidelines  as  may  be  approved  by the Board  from  time  to  time.  The  said  guidelines,  may,  'inter  alia',  provide  for  illness, injuries arising out of accidents, hospitalisation  and domicile treatment.
(2)  Without  prejudice  to  sub-regulation   (1)  the  Board  may  take  a  comprehensive health  insurance  policy  covering  all its employees  and their dependants,  on such terms and conditions, as it may determine. Travelling  and halting allowances
90. Travelling  and  halting  allowances  shall  be  paid  to  the  employees  according  to such  rates  and  on  such  terms  and  conditions  as  may  be  approved  by  the  Board  from time to time. Deputation  of employees to join military service
91.  The  terms  and  conditions  subject  to  which  an  employee  may  be  52[deputed  t o  t he] military service shall be determined  by the Board. 53[Deputation and External Assignment
92.    An  employee  of  the  Board  may  be  sent  on  deputation  or  on  external  assignment  to  serve under any other employer: Provided  that  such  deputation  or  external  assignment  shall  be  pursuant  to  the  approval  of  the Board  and  shall  be  in  accordance  with  such  terms  and  conditions  as  may  be  specified  by  the Board from time to time: Provided  further  that  an  employee  shall  not  be  sent  on  deputation  or  on  external  assignment against his will.] Gratuity
93. (1) Every employee, shall be eligible for gratuity on :- (a) retirement ; (b)  death ; (c)   disablement   rendering   him  unfit  for  further  service  as  certified  by  Board's Medical Officer ; (d)  resignation  after completing  five years of continuous service ; or (e)  termination  of service in any other way (except by way of punishment)  after completion of five years of service.
54[(2) The  amount  of gratuity  payable  shall  be determined  by the  Board  from  time  to time. 52  Substituted  f o r   t h e   wo r d s   “ p e r mi t t e d   t o   j o i n ”   b y  t h e   S E B I   ( E mp l o ye e s '   S e r v i c e )   ( S e c o n d A me n d me n t )   R e g u l a t i o n s ,   2 0 1 8 ,   w. e . f .   1 . 6 . 2 0 1 8 . 53 Substituted ibid. Prior to the substitution, regulation 92 read as follows: “Deputation  of employees  to other services
92.  (1)  Without    prejudice    to  the  provisions    of  Regulation    91,  no  employee    of  the  Board  may  be deputed  to  serve  under  any  other  employer  without  the  approval  of  the Chairman  who shall determine  the duration of such deputation and the terms and conditions  on which the deputation  shall take effect ; Provided  that no employee  may be deputed to foreign service against his will.
(2) Where  the services  of an employee  of the Board  are placed  (2) at the disposal  of  a foreign  employer,  it shall  be  a  condition  of  the  deputation  that  the  foreign  employer  shall,  during  the  periods  of  such deputation,  bear  the entire  cost  of the services  of the employee including  the following,  viz., (a)  Pay during joining time, (b)   Travelling  allowances  payable  to  the  employee  to  enable  him  to join  his  appointment  under  a foreign  employer  and  to  return  to  his  appointment  in  the  Board  on  the  termination  of  his deputation, (c)   Leave earned during the period of deputation, (d)   The employee's   contributions to the   employee's   account   in   the   Board's Provident Fund, and (e)  If the employee  is entitled  to pension  under the Board,  an amount,  as may  be determined  by the Chairman,  sufficient  to  cover  the  Board's  liability  towards  the  pension  for  the  period  the employee  is on deputation. In addition, the foreign employer may also be required to make a contribution  towards any  gratuity  or  other sum  for  which  the  employee  may  become  eligible  on  his retirement,  on such scale as may be fixed by the Chairman.” (2A)    An    employee    who    has    not    completed    a    minimum    period    of    ten    years    of continuous  service  in  the  Board,  the  gratuity  shall  be  paid  as  per  the  provisions  of  the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 (39 of 1972), as amended from time to time : Provided  that  where  an  employee  has  completed  a  minimum  period  of  ten  years  of continuous  service  in  the  Board,  the  gratuity  shall  be  paid  as  per  the  SEB1  (Payment  of Gratuity to Employees)  Rules, 2003: Provided  further  that  the  gratuity  amount  payable  to  an  employee  shall  not  be  less than the amount payable under the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972.]
55[(3)  Without  prejudice  to  the  sub-regulations  (1),  (2)  and  (2A),  the  Board  may  create  a gratuity trust.] 56[Subscription to the SEBI Provident Fund or the SEBI New Pension Scheme
94. (1) Unless otherwise specified in these regulations, every employee shall become a member of the SEBI Employee's Provident Fund and shall agree to be bound by the Rules of the Fund.
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  every  whole  time  employee joining  the  services  of  the  Board,  on  and  from  such  date,  as  may  be  specified,  shall  only become a member of the SEBI New Pension Scheme and shall agree to be bound by the Rules of the Scheme.
(3)  Every  whole  time  employee  of  the  Board  who  is  a  member  of  the  SEBI  Employee’s Provident  Fund,  prior  to  such  date  as  may  be  specified,  shall  be  given  an  option  to  remain  a member  of  the  SEBI  Employee’s  Provident  Fund  or  to  become  a  member  of  the  SEBI  New Pension Scheme, in such manner as may be specified.] Obligation  to subscribe to the insurance scheme or fund instituted by the Board
95. It shall  be incumbent  on every  employee  bound  by these  Regulations  to subscribe to any insurance  scheme  or  fund  that  may  be  instituted  by  the  Board  for  the  benefit  of  its employees  and  their  families  and  to  be  bound  by  the  rules  of  the  said  scheme  or fund; Provided  that    nothing    contained      in    this    Regulation      shall    serve    to    curtail    any superannuation  benefits which may otherwise be admissible  to an employee;
94. Unless  otherwise  directed  by  the  Board  or  the  Chairman,  every  employee  shall become a  member   of  the  SEBI  Employee's   Provident    Fund   and  shall  agree   to  be  bound  by  the Rules of the Fund." Provided  further  that  nothing  contained  in  this  Regulation  shall  require  an  employee  to subscribe  to  the  said  scheme  or  fund  if  he  is  exempted  from  so  doing  under  the rules  of the said scheme or fund. Declarations  to be signed by the employee
3. (1)  No acquirer shall acquire shares or voting rights in a target company which taken together with shares or voting rights, if any, held by him and by persons acting in concert with him in such target company, entitle them to exercise twenty-five per cent  or  more  of  the  voting  rights  in  such  target  company  unless  the  acquirer makes  a  public  announcement  of  an  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares  of  such target company in accordance with these regulations.
(2)  No acquirer, who together with persons acting in concert with him, has acquired and holds in accordance with these regulations shares or voting rights in a target company  entitling  them  to  exercise  twenty-five  per  cent  or  more  of  the  voting rights  in  the target  company but  less than the maximum  permissible non-public shareholding, shall acquire within any financial year additional shares or voting rights in such target company entitling them to exercise more than five per cent of the voting rights, unless the acquirer makes a public announcement of an open offer  for  acquiring  shares  of  such  target  company  in  accordance  with  these regulations: 12[Provided that the acquisition beyond five per cent but upto ten per cent of the voting rights  in  the target  company shall be permitted for the financial  year 2020-21  only  in  respect  of  acquisition  by  a  promoter  pursuant  to  preferential issue of equity shares by the target company.] Provided that such acquirer shall not be entitled to acquire or enter into any agreement to acquire shares or voting rights exceeding such number of shares as would  take  the  aggregate  shareholding  pursuant  to  the  acquisition  above  the maximum permissible non-public shareholding. 13[Provided further that, acquisition pursuant to a resolution plan approved under section 31 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 [No. 31 of 2016] shall be  exempt  from  the  obligation  under  the  proviso  to  the  sub-regulation  (2)  of regulation 3.] additional voting rights under this sub-regulation,— (i) gross  acquisitions  alone  shall  be  taken  into  account  regardless  of  any intermittent fall in shareholding or voting rights whether owing to disposal of shares held or dilution of voting rights owing to fresh issue of shares by the target company. (ii) in the case of acquisition of shares by way of issue of new shares by the target  company  or  where  the  target  company  has  made  an  issue  of  new shares  in  any  given  financial  year,  the  difference  between  the  pre- allotment and the post-allotment percentage voting rights shall be regarded as the quantum of additional acquisition .
(3)    For  the  purposes  of  sub-regulation  (1)  and  sub-regulation  (2),  acquisition  of shares  by  any  person,  such  that  the  individual  shareholding  of  such  person acquiring  shares  exceeds  the  stipulated  thresholds,  shall  also  be  attracting  the obligation  to  make  an  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares  of  the  target  company irrespective  of  whether  there  is  a  change  in  the  aggregate  shareholding  with persons acting in concert.
14[(4)  Nothing  contained  in  this  regulation  shall  apply  to  acquisition  of  shares  or voting rights of a company by the promoters or shareholders in control, in terms of  the  provisions  of  Chapter  VI-A  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009.] Acquisition of control.
4. Irrespective of acquisition or holding of shares or voting rights in a target company, no acquirer shall acquire, directly or indirectly, control over such target company unless  the  acquirer  makes  a  public  announcement  of  an  open  offer  for  acquiring shares of such target company in accordance with these regulations. Indirect acquisition of shares or control.
5. (1)  For the purposes of regulation 3 and regulation 4, acquisition of shares or voting rights  in,  or  control  over,  any  company  or  other  entity,  that  would  enable  any person and persons acting in concert with him to exercise or direct the exercise of  such  percentage  of  voting  rights  in,  or  control  over,  a  target  company,  the acquisition  of  which  would  otherwise  attract  the  obligation  to  make  a  public announcement  of  an  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares  under  these  regulations, shall  be  considered  as  an  indirect  acquisition  of  shares  or  voting  rights  in,  or control over the target company.
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  these  regulations,  in  the  case  of  an indirect acquisition attracting the provisions of sub-regulation (1) where,— (a)  the proportionate net asset value of the target company as a percentage of the consolidated net asset value of the entity or business being acquired; (b) the proportionate sales turnover of the target company as a percentage of the consolidated sales turnover of the entity or business being acquired; or (c)  the  proportionate  market  capitalisation  of  the  target  company  as  a percentage  of  the  enterprise  value  for  the  entity  or  business  being acquired; is  in  excess  of  eighty  per  cent,  on  the  basis  of  the  most  recent  audited  annual financial  statements,  such  indirect  acquisition  shall  be  regarded  as  a  direct acquisition of the target company for all purposes of these regulations including without  limitation,  the  obligations  relating  to  timing,  pricing  and  other compliance requirements for the open offer. clause (c) of this sub-regulation, the market capitalisation of the target company shall be taken into account on the basis of the volume-weighted average market price  of  such  shares  on  the  stock  exchange  for  a  period  of  sixty  trading  days preceding the earlier of, the date on which the primary acquisition is contracted, and  the  date  on  which  the  intention  or  the  decision  to  make  the  primary acquisition is  announced in  the public domain, as traded on the stock exchange where  the  maximum  volume  of  trading  in  the  shares  of  the  target  company  are recorded during such period. 15[Delisting offer.
5A. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, in the event the acquirer makes a public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares of a target company in terms of regulations 3, 4 or 5, he may delist the company in accordance with provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009: Provided that the acquirer shall have declared upfront his intention to so delist at the time  of  making  the  detailed  public  statement 16[and  a  subsequent  declaration  of  delisting for the purpose of the offer proposed to be made under sub regulation (1) will not suffice].
(2) Where an offer made under sub-regulation (1) is not successful,- (i) on account of non–receipt of prior approval of shareholders in terms of clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 8 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; or (ii) in  terms  of regulation  17 of Securities  and Exchange Board of  India  (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; or (iii)  on  account  of  the  acquirer  rejecting  the  discovered  price  determined  by  the  book building  process  in  terms  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  16  of  Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009, the acquirer shall make  an announcement within two working  days in  respect  of such failure in all the newspapers in which the detailed public statement was made and shall comply with all applicable provisions of these regulations.
17[(3) In the event of failure of the delisting offer made under sub-regulation (1), the open offer obligations shall be fulfilled by the acquirer in the following manner: (i) the acquirer, through the manager to the open offer, shall within five working days from the date of the announcement under sub-regulation (2), file with the Board, a draft of the letter of offer as specified in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 16; and (ii) shall comply with all other applicable provisions of these regulations. Provided  that  the  offer  price  shall  stand  enhanced  by  an  amount  equal  to  a  sum determined at the rate of ten per cent per annum for the period between the scheduled date of payment of consideration to the shareholders and the actual date of payment of consideration to the shareholders. which  the  payment  of  consideration  ought  to  have  been  made  to  the  shareholders  in terms of the timelines in these regulations.]
(4) Where a competing offer is made in terms of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 20,- (a) the acquirer shall not be entitled to delist the company; (b)  the  acquirer  shall  not  be  liable  to  pay  interest  to  the  shareholders  on  account  of delay due to competing offer; (c) the acquirer shall comply with all the applicable provisions of these regulations and make an announcement in this regard, within two working days from the date of public announcement  made  in  terms  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  20,  in  all  the newspapers in which the detailed public statement was made.
(5)  Shareholders  who  have  tendered  shares  in  acceptance  of  the  offer  made  under  sub- regulation (1), shall be entitled to withdraw such shares tendered, within 10 working days from the date of the announcement under sub-regulation (2) .
(6) Shareholders who have not tendered their shares in acceptance of the offer made under sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  entitled  to  tender  their  shares  in  acceptance  of  the  offer  made under these regulations.] Voluntary Offer.
6. (1) An acquirer, who together with persons acting in concert with him, holds shares or  voting  rights  in  a  target  company  entitling  them  to  exercise  twenty-five  per cent  or  more  but  less  than  the  maximum  permissible  non-public  shareholding, shall be entitled to voluntarily make a public announcement of an open offer for acquiring  shares  in  accordance  with  these  regulations,  subject  to  their  aggregate shareholding  after  completion  of  the  open  offer  not  exceeding  the  maximum permissible non-public shareholding: Provided that where an acquirer or any person acting in concert with him  has  acquired  shares  of  the  target  company  in  the  preceding  fifty-two  weeks without attracting the obligation to make a public announcement of an open offer, he  shall  not  be  eligible  to  voluntarily  make  a  public  announcement  of  an  open offer for acquiring shares under this regulation: 18[The relaxation from the first proviso is granted till March 31, 2021.] Provided further that during the offer period such acquirer shall not be entitled to acquire any shares otherwise than under the open offer.
(2)   An  acquirer  and  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him,  who  have  made  a  public announcement under this regulation to acquire shares of a target company shall not  be  entitled  to  acquire  any  shares  of  the  target  company  for  a  period  of  six months after completion of the open offer except pursuant to another voluntary open offer: Provided  that  such  restriction  shall  not  prohibit  the  acquirer  from making  a  competing  offer  upon  any  other  person  making  an  open  offer  for acquiring shares of the target company.
(3)  Shares acquired through bonus issue or stock splits shall not be  considered for purposes of the dis-entitlement set out in this regulation.
19[6A. Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, no person who is a wilful defaulter shall make a public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares or enter into any transaction that would attract the obligation to make a public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares under these regulations: Provided  that  this  regulation  shall  not  prohibit  the  wilful  defaulter  from  making  a competing  offer  in  accordance  with  regulation  20  of  these  regulations  upon  any  other person making an open offer for acquiring shares of the target company.]
20[6B. Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, no person who is a fugitive economic  offender  shall  make  a  public  announcement  of  an  open  offer  or  make  a competing  offer  for  acquiring  shares  or  enter  into  any  transaction,  either  directly  or indirectly, for acquiring any shares or voting rights or control of a target company.] Offer Size.
7. (1) The open offer for acquiring shares to be made by the acquirer and persons acting in  concert  with  him  under  regulation  3  and  regulation  4  shall  be  for  at  least twenty  six  per  cent    of  total  shares  of  the  target  company,  as  of  tenth  working day from the closure of the tendering period: Provided  that  the  total  shares  of  the  target  company  as  of  tenth working day from the closure of the tendering period shall take into account all potential  increases  in  the  number  of  outstanding  shares  during  the  offer  period contemplated as of the date of the public announcement: Provided  further  that  the  offer  size  shall  be  proportionately increased  in  case  of  an  increase  in  total  number  of  shares,  after  the  public announcement,  which is  not  contemplated  on the  date  of the  public announcement.
(2)  The  open  offer  made  under  regulation  6  shall  be  for  acquisition  of  at  least  such number of shares as would entitle the holder thereof to exercise an additional ten per cent of the 21[voting rights in] the target company, and shall not exceed such number of shares as would result in the post-acquisition holding of the acquirer and persons acting in concert with him exceeding the maximum permissible non- public shareholding applicable to such target company: Provided  that  in  the  event  of  a  competing  offer  being  made,  the acquirer who has voluntarily made a public announcement of an open offer under regulation 6 shall be entitled to increase the number of shares for which the open offer has been made to such number of shares as he deems fit: Provided  further  that  such  increase  in  offer  size  shall  have  to  be made within a period of fifteen working days from the public announcement of a competing  offer,  failing  which  the  acquirer  shall  not  be  entitled  to  increase  the offer size.
(3)  Upon an acquirer opting to increase the offer size under sub-regulation (2), such open  offer  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  made  under  sub-regulation  (2)  of regulation 3 and the provisions of these regulations shall apply accordingly.
(4)  In the event the shares accepted in the open offer were such that the shareholding of the acquirer taken together with persons acting in concert with him pursuant to completion  of  the  open  offer  results  in  their  shareholding  exceeding  the maximum permissible non-public shareholding, the acquirer shall be required to bring down the non-public shareholding to the level specified and within the time permitted under Securities Contract (Regulation) Rules, 1957.
(5) The  acquirer  whose  shareholding  exceeds  the  maximum  permissible  non-public shareholding,  pursuant  to  an  open  offer  under  these  regulations,  shall  not  be eligible  to  make  a  voluntary  delisting  offer  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009, unless a period of twelve months has elapsed from the date of the completion of the offer period.
(6)  Any open offer made under these regulations shall be made to all shareholders of the target  company, other than the acquirer, persons acting in  concert with him and  the  parties  to  any  underlying  agreement  including  persons  deemed  to  be acting in concert with such parties, for the sale of shares of the target company. Offer Price.
8.  (1) The open offer for acquiring shares under regulation 3, regulation 4, regulation 5 or  regulation  6  shall  be  made  at  a  price  not  lower  than  the  price  determined  in accordance with sub-regulation (2) or sub-regulation (3), as the case may be.
(2)  In the case of direct acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over the target company, and indirect acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over the target company where the parameters referred to in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 5 are met, the offer price shall be the highest of,— (a) the  highest  negotiated  price  per  share  of  the  target  company  for  any acquisition under the agreement attracting the obligation to make a public announcement of an open offer; (b) the  volume-weighted  average  price  paid  or  payable  for  acquisitions, whether  by  the  acquirer  or  by  any  person  acting  in  concert  with  him, during the fifty-two weeks immediately preceding  the date of the public announcement; (c) the  highest  price  paid  or  payable  for  any  acquisition,  whether  by  the acquirer or by any person acting in concert with him, during the twenty- six weeks immediately preceding the date of the public announcement; (d) the volume-weighted average market price of such shares for a period of sixty  trading  days  immediately  preceding  the  date  of  the  public announcement  as  traded  on  the  stock  exchange  where  the  maximum volume of trading in the shares of the target company are recorded during such period, provided such shares are frequently traded; (e)  where  the  shares  are  not  frequently  traded,  the  price  determined  by  the acquirer and the manager to the open offer taking into account valuation parameters including, book value, comparable trading multiples, and such other  parameters  as  are  customary  for  valuation  of  shares  of  such companies; and (f)     the per share value computed under sub-regulation (5), if applicable.
(3)    In the case of an indirect acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over the  target  company,  where  the  parameter  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (2)  of regulation 5 are not met, the offer price shall be the highest of,— (a)   the highest negotiated price per share, if any, of the target company for any acquisition under the agreement attracting the obligation to  make a public announcement of an open offer; (b)  the  volume-weighted  average  price  paid  or  payable  for  any  acquisition, whether by the acquirer or by any person acting in concert with him, during the fifty-two weeks immediately preceding the earlier of, the date on which the primary acquisition is contracted, and the date on which the intention or the  decision  to  make  the  primary  acquisition  is  announced  in  the  public domain; (c)   the highest price paid or payable for any acquisition, whether by the acquirer or  by  any  person  acting  in  concert  with  him,  during  the  twenty-six  weeks immediately  preceding  the  earlier  of,  the  date  on  which  the  primary acquisition is contracted, and the date on which the intention or the decision to make the primary acquisition is announced in the public domain; (d)  the highest price paid or payable for any acquisition, whether by the acquirer or by any person acting in concert with him, between the earlier of, the date on  which  the  primary  acquisition  is  contracted,  and  the  date  on  which  the intention or the decision to make the primary acquisition is announced in the public  domain,  and  the  date  of  the  public  announcement  of  the  open  offer for shares of the target company made under these regulations; (e)   the volume-weighted average market price of the shares for a period of sixty trading  days  immediately  preceding  the  earlier  of,  the  date  on  which  the primary acquisition is contracted, and the date on which the intention or the decision to make the primary acquisition is announced in the public domain, as  traded  on  the  stock  exchange  where  the  maximum  volume  of trading  in the shares of the target company are recorded during such period, provided such shares are frequently traded; and (f) the per share value computed under sub-regulation (5).
(4)    In  the  event  the  offer  price  is  incapable  of  being  determined  under  any  of  the parameters specified in sub-regulation (3), without prejudice to the requirements of sub-regulation (5), the offer price shall be the fair price of shares of the target company  to  be  determined  by  the  acquirer  and  the  manager  to  the  open  offer taking  into  account  valuation  parameters  including,  book  value,  comparable trading  multiples,  and  such  other  parameters  as  are  customary  for  valuation  of shares of such companies.
(5)  In the case of an indirect acquisition and open offers under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 5 where,— (a)  the proportionate net asset value of the target company as a percentage of the consolidated net asset value of the entity or business being acquired; (b) the  proportionate  sales  turnover  of  the  target  company  as  a  percentage  of the consolidated sales turnover of the entity or business being acquired; or (c)  the  proportionate  market  capitalization  of  the  target  company  as  a percentage of the enterprise value for the entity or business being acquired; is in excess of fifteen per cent,  on the basis of the most recent audited annual financial statements, the acquirer shall, notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation  (2)  or  sub-regulation  (3),  be  required  to  compute  and  disclose, in  the  letter  of  offer,  the  per  share  value  of  the  target  company  taken  into account  for  the  acquisition,  along  with  a  detailed  description  of  the methodology adopted for such computation. clause  (c)  of  this  sub-regulation,  the  market  capitalisation  of  the  target company  shall  be  taken  into  account  on  the  basis  of  the  volume-weighted average market price of such shares on the stock exchange for a period of sixty trading days preceding the earlier of, the date on which the primary acquisition is contracted, and the date on which the intention or the decision to make the primary acquisition is announced in the public domain, as traded on the stock exchange  where  the  maximum  volume  of  trading  in  the  shares  of  the  target company are recorded during such period.
(6)  For the purposes of sub-regulation (2) and sub-regulation (3), where the acquirer or any person acting in concert with him has any outstanding convertible instruments convertible into shares of the target company at a specific price, the price at which such  instruments  are  to  be  converted  into  shares,  shall  also  be  considered  as  a parameter under sub-regulation (2) and sub-regulation (3).
(7)    For  the  purposes  of  sub-regulation  (2)  and  sub-regulation  (3),  the  price  paid  for shares of the target  company  shall include any price paid  or  agreed to  be paid  for the  shares  or  voting  rights  in,  or  control  over  the  target  company,  in  any  form whatsoever,  whether  stated  in  the  agreement  for  acquisition  of  shares  or  in  any incidental,  contemporaneous  or  collateral  agreement,  whether  termed  as  control premium or as non-compete fees or otherwise.
(8)  Where the acquirer has acquired or agreed to acquire whether by himself or through or with persons acting in concert with him any shares or voting rights in the target company  during  the  offer  period,  whether  by  subscription  or  purchase,  at  a  price higher  than  the  offer  price,  the  offer  price  shall  stand  revised  to  the  highest  price paid or payable for any such acquisition: Provided that no such acquisition shall be made after the third working day prior  to  the  commencement  of  the  tendering  period  and  until  the  expiry  of  the tendering period.
(9)  The  price  parameters  under  sub-regulation  (2)  and  sub-regulation  (3)  may  be adjusted by the acquirer in consultation with the manager to the offer, for corporate actions such as issuances pursuant to rights issue, bonus issue, stock consolidations, stock  splits,  payment  of  dividend,  de-mergers  and  reduction  of  capital,  where  the record  date  for  effecting  such  corporate  actions  falls  prior  to  three  working  days before the commencement of the tendering period: Provided  that  no  adjustment  shall  be  made  for  dividend  declared  with  a record date falling during such period except where the dividend per share is more than fifty per cent higher than the average of the dividend per share paid during the three financial years preceding the date of the public announcement.
(10)  Where  the  acquirer  or  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him  acquires  shares  of  the target company during the period of twenty-six weeks after the tendering period at a price  higher  than  the  offer  price  under  these  regulations,  the  acquirer  and  persons acting in concert shall pay the difference between the highest acquisition price and the offer price, to all the shareholders whose shares were accepted in the open offer, within sixty days from the date of such acquisition: Provided  that  this  provision  shall  not  be  applicable  to  acquisitions  under another  open  offer  under  these  regulations  or  pursuant  to  the  Securities  and Exchange  Board  of  India  (Delisting  of  Equity  Shares)  Regulations,  2009,  or  open market  purchases  made  in  the  ordinary  course  on  the  stock  exchanges,  not  being negotiated  acquisition  of  shares  of  the  target  company  whether  by  way  of  bulk deals, block deals or in any other form.
(11)  Where  the  open  offer  is  subject  to  a  minimum  level  of  acceptances,  the  acquirer may,  subject  to  the  other  provisions  of  this  regulation,  indicate  a  lower  price, which  will  not  be  less  than  the  price  determined  under  this  regulation,  for acquiring  all  the  acceptances  despite  the  acceptance  falling  short  of  the  indicated minimum  level  of  acceptance,  in  the  event  the  open  offer  does  not  receive  the minimum acceptance.
(12) In the case of any indirect acquisition, other than the indirect acquisition  referred in  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  5,  the  offer  price  shall  stand  enhanced  by  an amount  equal  to  a  sum  determined  at  the  rate  of  ten  per  cent  per  annum  for  the period  between  the  earlier  of  the  date  on  which  the  primary  acquisition  is contracted or the date on which the intention or the decision to make the primary acquisition is announced in the public domain, and the date of the detailed public statement, provided such period is more than five working days.
(13)  The  offer  price  for  partly  paid  up  shares  shall  be  computed  as  the  difference between the offer price and the amount due towards calls-in-arrears including calls remaining unpaid with interest, if any, thereon.
(14)  The  offer  price  for  equity  shares  carrying  differential  voting  rights  shall  be determined by the acquirer and the manager to the open offer with full disclosure of  justification  for  the  price  so  determined,  being  set  out  in  the  detailed  public statement and the letter of offer: Provided that such price shall not be lower than the amount determined by applying the percentage rate of premium, if any, that the offer price for the equity shares carrying full voting rights represents to the price parameter computed under clause (d) of sub-regulation 2, or as the case may be, clause (e) of sub-regulation 3, to  the  volume-weighted  average  market  price  of  the  shares  carrying  differential voting  rights  for  a  period  of  sixty  trading  days  computed  on  the  same  terms  as specified  in  the  aforesaid  provisions,  subject  to  shares  carrying  full  voting  rights and  the  shares  carrying  differential  voting  rights,  both  being  frequently  traded shares.
(15)  In the event of any of the price parameters contained in this regulation not being available  or  denominated  in  Indian  rupees,  the  conversion  of  such  amount  into Indian  rupees  shall  be  effected  at  the  exchange  rate  as  prevailing  on  the  date preceding  the  date  of  public  announcement  and  the  acquirer  shall  set  out  the source  of  such  exchange  rate  in  the  public  announcement,  the  detailed  public statement and the letter of offer.
(16)  For  purposes  of  clause  (e)  of  sub-regulation  (2)  and  sub-regulation  (4),  the Board may, at  the expense of the  acquirer,  require valuation  of the shares by  an independent  merchant  banker  other  than  the  manager  to  the  open  offer  or  an independent chartered accountant in practice having a minimum experience of ten years. Mode of payment.
9. (1)  The offer price may be paid, — (a) in cash; (b)  by  issue,  exchange  or  transfer  of  listed  shares  in  the  equity  share capital of the acquirer or of any person acting in concert; (c)  by  issue,  exchange  or  transfer  of  listed  secured  debt  instruments issued by the acquirer or any person  acting in  concert with a  rating not  inferior  to  investment  grade  as  rated  by  a  credit  rating  agency registered with the Board; (d)  by issue, exchange or transfer of convertible debt securities entitling the holder thereof to acquire listed shares in the equity share capital of the acquirer or of any person acting in concert; or (e) a  combination  of  the  mode  of  payment  of  consideration  stated  in clause (a), clause (b), clause (c) and clause (d): Provided that where any shares have been acquired or agreed to be acquired by the acquirer and persons acting in concert with him during the fifty-two weeks immediately preceding the date of public announcement constitute more than ten per cent of the voting rights in the target company and has been paid for in  cash, the open offer shall  entail  an  option  to  the  shareholders  to  require  payment  of  the offer  price  in  cash,  and  a  shareholder  who  has  not  exercised  an option in his acceptance shall be deemed to have opted for receiving the offer price in cash: Provided  further  that  in  case  of  revision  in  offer  price  the mode  of  payment  of  consideration  may  be  altered  subject  to  the condition  that  the  component  of  the  offer  price  to  be  paid  in  cash prior to such revision is not reduced.
(2)   For  the  purposes  of  clause  (b),  clause  (d)  and  clause  (e)  of  sub-regulation  (1), the  shares  sought  to  be  issued  or  exchanged  or  transferred  or  the  shares  to  be issued upon conversion of other securities, towards payment of the offer price, shall conform to the following requirements, — (a) such  class  of  shares  are  listed  on  a  stock  exchange  and  frequently traded at the time of the public announcement; (b) such class of shares have been listed for a period of at least two years preceding the date of the public announcement; (c) the issuer of such class of shares has redressed at least ninety five per cent.  of  the  complaints  received  from  investors  by  the  end  of  the calendar quarter immediately preceding the calendar month in which the public announcement is made; (d) the  issuer  of  such  class  of  shares  has  been  in  material  compliance with  the  22 [listing  regulations]  for  a  period  of  at  least  two  years immediately preceding the date of the public announcement: Provided  that  in  case  where  the  Board  is  of  the view  that  a company  has  not  been  materially  compliant  with  the  provisions  of the 23[listing regulations], the offer price shall be paid in cash only; (e) the impact of auditors’ qualifications, if any, on the audited accounts of the issuer of such shares for three immediately preceding financial years does not exceed five per cent. of the net profit or loss after tax of such issuer for the respective years; and (f) the  Board  has  not  issued  any  direction  against  the  issuer  of  such shares not to access the capital market or to issue fresh shares.
(3)  Where the shareholders have been provided with options to accept  payment  in cash or by way of securities, or a combination thereof, the pricing for the open offer  may  be  different  for  each  option  subject  to  compliance  with  minimum offer price requirements under regulation 8: Provided  that  the  detailed  public  statement  and  the  letter  of  offer shall contain justification for such differential pricing.
(4) In the  event  the offer price  consists of consideration  to  be paid  by issuance of securities, which requires compliance with any applicable law, the acquirer shall ensure that such compliance is  completed not  later than the commencement  of the tendering period: Provided that in case the requisite compliance is not made by such date, the acquirer shall pay the entire consideration in cash.
(5)   Where listed securities are offered as consideration, the value of such securities shall be higher of: (a)    the  average  of  the  weekly  high  and  low  of  the  closing  prices  of  such securities quoted on the stock exchange during the six months preceding the relevant date; (b)    the  average  of  the  weekly  high  and  low  of  the  closing  prices  of  such securities quoted on the stock exchange during the two weeks preceding the relevant date;  and (c)   the volume-weighted average market price for a period of sixty trading days preceding  the  date  of  the  public  announcement,  as  traded  on  the  stock exchange  where  the  maximum  volume  of  trading  in  the  shares  of  the company  whose  securities  are  being  offered  as  consideration,  are  recorded during the six-month  period prior to relevant date and the ratio of exchange of  shares  shall  be  duly  certified  by  an  independent  merchant  banker  (other than the manager to the open offer) or an independent chartered accountant having a minimum experience of ten years. shall  be  the  thirtieth  day  prior  to  the  date  on  which  the  meeting  of shareholders  is  held  to  consider  the  proposed  issue  of  shares  under  sub- section  (1A)  of  Section  81  of  the 24[Companies  Act,  2013  (18  of  2013)]. General exemptions.
10.  (1) The  following  acquisitions  shall  be  exempt  from  the  obligation  to  make  an open  offer  under  regulation  3  and  regulation  4  subject  to  fulfillment  of  the conditions stipulated therefor,— (a) acquisition  pursuant  to  inter  se  transfer  of  shares  amongst  qualifying persons, being,— (i) immediate relatives; (ii)  persons  named  as  promoters  in  the  shareholding  pattern  filed  by the  target  company  in  terms  of  the 25[listing  regulations  or  as  the case may be, the listing agreement] or these regulations for not less than three years prior to the proposed acquisition; (iii)  a company, its subsidiaries, its holding company, other subsidiaries of  such  holding  company,  persons  holding  not  less  than  fifty  per cent  of  the  equity  shares  of  such  company,  other  companies  in which  such  persons  hold  not  less  than  fifty  per  cent  of  the  equity shares,  and  their  subsidiaries  subject  to  control  over  such qualifying persons being exclusively held by the same persons; shall include a body corporate, whether Indian or foreign.] (iv)  persons acting in  concert  for not  less than three years prior to  the proposed  acquisition,  and  disclosed  as  such  pursuant  to  filings (v) shareholders of a target company who have been persons acting in concert  for  a  period  of  not  less  than  three  years  prior  to  the proposed  acquisition  and  are  disclosed  as  such  pursuant  to  filings under  the 28[listing  regulations  or  as  the  case  may  be,  the  listing agreement],  and  any  company  in  which  the  entire  equity  share capital  is  owned  by  such  shareholders  in  the  same  proportion  as their  holdings  in  the  target  company  without  any  differential entitlement to exercise voting rights in such company: Provided  that  for  purposes  of  availing  of  the  exemption under this clause,— (i) If  the  shares  of  the  target  company  are  frequently  traded, the acquisition price per share shall not be higher by more than twenty-five per cent of the volume-weighted average market  price  for  a  period  of  sixty  trading  days  preceding the  date  of  issuance  of  notice  for  the  proposed  inter  se transfer  under  sub-regulation  (5),  as  traded  on  the  stock exchange  where  the  maximum  volume  of  trading  in  the shares  of  the  target  company  are  recorded  during  such period,  and  if  the  shares  of  the  target  company  are infrequently  traded,  the  acquisition  price  shall  not    be higher  by  more  than  twenty-five  percent  of  the  price determined in  terms of clause (e) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 8; and (ii)  the transferor and the transferee shall have complied with applicable disclosure requirements set out in Chapter V. (b)  acquisition in the ordinary course of business by,— (i) an  underwriter  registered  with  the  Board  by  way  of  allotment pursuant to an underwriting agreement in terms of the Securities and Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009; (ii)  a  stock  broker  registered  with  the  Board  on  behalf  of  his  client  in exercise  of  lien  over  the  shares  purchased  on  behalf  of  the  client under the bye-laws of the stock exchange where such stock broker is a member; (iii)  a merchant banker registered with the Board or a nominated investor in the process of market making or subscription to the unsubscribed portion  of  issue  in  terms  of  Chapter  XB  of  the  Securities  and Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009; (iv)  any  person  acquiring  shares  pursuant  to  a  scheme  of  safety  net  in terms of regulation 44 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009; (v)  a  merchant  banker  registered  with  the  Board  acting  as  a  stabilising agent  or  by  the  promoter  or  pre-issue  shareholder  in  terms  of regulation 45 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009; (vi)  by  a  registered  market-maker  of  a  stock  exchange  in  respect  of shares for which he is the market maker during the course of market making; (vii)  a Scheduled Commercial Bank, acting as an escrow agent; and (viii)  invocation  of  pledge  by  Scheduled  Commercial  Banks  or  Public Financial Institutions as a pledgee. (c)   acquisitions  at  subsequent  stages,  by  an  acquirer  who  has  made  a  public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares pursuant to an agreement of disinvestment, as contemplated in such agreement: Provided that,— (i) both  the acquirer and the seller are the same at  all the stages of acquisition; and (ii) full disclosures of all the subsequent stages of acquisition, if any, have  been  made  in  the  public  announcement  of  the  open  offer and in the letter of offer. (d)     acquisition pursuant to a scheme,— (i)  made under section 18 of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions)  Act,  1985  (1  of  1986)  or  any  statutory  modification or re-enactment thereto; (ii)  of  arrangement  involving  the  target  company  as  a  transferor company  or  as  a  transferee  company,  or  reconstruction  of  the target  company,  including  amalgamation,  merger  or  demerger, pursuant to an order of a court [or a tribunal]29 [***]30under any law or regulation, Indian or foreign; or (iii)  of  arrangement  not  directly  involving  the  target  company  as  a transferor company or as a transferee company, or reconstruction not  involving  the  target  company’s  undertaking,  including amalgamation,  merger  or  demerger,  pursuant  to  an  order  of  a court  31 [or  a  tribunal]  or  [***] 32 under  any  law  or  regulation, Indian or foreign, subject to,— (A) the  component  of  cash  and  cash  equivalents  in  the consideration paid being less than twenty-five per cent of the consideration paid under the scheme; and (B)  where after implementation  of the scheme  of arrangement,  persons  directly  or  indirectly  holding  at least  thirty-three  per  cent  of  the  voting  rights  in  the combined entity are the same as the persons who held the entire  voting  rights  before  the  implementation  of  the scheme. 33[(da)  acquisition pursuant to a resolution plan approved under section 31 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (31 of 2016);] (e) acquisition  pursuant to the  provisions  of the  Securitisation  and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security  Interest Act, 2002 (54 of 2002); (f) acquisition  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange (g) (h) Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; acquisition by way of transmission, succession or inheritance; acquisition  of  voting  rights  or  preference  shares  carrying  voting  rights arising  out  of  the  operation  of 34[sub-section  (2)  of  section  47  of  the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)]. 35[(i)  Acquisition of shares by the lenders pursuant to conversion of their debt as part of a debt restructuring [***]36 implemented in accordance with the guidelines specified by the Reserve Bank of India: [Provided  that  the  conditions  specified  under  sub-regulation  (6)  of regulation  158  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2018  are  complied with]37] scheduled  commercial  banks  (excluding  Regional  Rural  Banks)  and  All India Financial Institutions]38 39[(ia)  [***]40]
(3)  An increase in voting rights in a target company of any shareholder beyond the limit attracting an obligation to make an open offer under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 3, pursuant to buy-back of shares 45[by the target company] shall be exempt from the obligation to make an open offer provided such shareholder reduces his shareholding such that his voting rights fall to below the threshold referred to in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 3 within ninety days from the date 46[of the closure of the said buy-back offer].
(4)  The following acquisitions shall be exempt from the obligation to make an open offer under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3,— (a)  acquisition  of  shares  by  any  shareholder  of  a  target  company,  upto  his entitlement, pursuant to a rights issue; (b)  acquisition  of  shares  by  any  shareholder  of  a  target  company,  beyond  his entitlement,  pursuant  to  a  rights  issue,  subject  to  fulfillment  of  the  following conditions,— (i) the  acquirer  has  not  renounced  any  of  his  entitlements  in  such  rights  issue; and (ii) the  price  at  which  the  rights  issue  is  made  is  not  higher  than  the  ex-rights price of the shares of the target company, being the sum of,— (A) the volume weighted average market price of the shares of the target company  during  a  period  of  sixty  trading  days  ending  on  the  day prior to the date of determination of the rights issue price, multiplied by the number of shares outstanding prior to the rights issue, divided by  the  total  number  of  shares  outstanding  after  allotment  under  the rights issue: Provided  that  such  volume  weighted  average  market  price shall  be  determined  on  the  basis  of  trading  on  the  stock  exchange where  the  maximum  volume  of  trading  in  the  shares  of  such  target company is recorded during such period; and (B) the  price  at  which  the  shares  are  offered  in  the  rights  issue, multiplied  by  the  number  of  shares  so  offered  in  the  rights  issue divided  by  the  total  number  of  shares  outstanding  after  allotment under the rights issue: (c) increase  in  voting  rights  in  a  target  company  of  any  shareholder  pursuant  to buy-back of shares: Provided that,— (i)  such  shareholder  has  not  voted  in  favour  of  the  resolution authorising the buy-back of securities under 47[section 68 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)]; (ii)  in  the  case  of  a  shareholder  resolution,  voting  is  by  way  of postal ballot; (iii)  where  a  resolution  of  shareholders  is  not  required  for  the  buy- back,  such  shareholder,  in  his  capacity  as  a  director,  or  any other interested director has not voted in favour of the resolution of  the  board  of  directors  of  the  target  company  authorising  the buy-back  of  securities  under  48 [section  68  of  the  Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)]; and (iv)  the increase in voting rights does not result in an acquisition of control by such shareholder over the target company: Provided further that where the aforesaid conditions are not met, in the event such shareholder reduces his shareholding such that his voting rights fall below the level at which the obligation to make an  open  offer  would  be  attracted  under  sub-regulation  (2)  of regulation  3,  within  ninety  days  from  the  date 49[of  closure  of  the buy-back  offer  by  the  target  company],  the  shareholder  shall  be exempt from the obligation to make an open offer; (d)   acquisition of shares in a target company by any person in exchange for shares of  another  target  company  tendered  pursuant  to  an  open  offer  for  acquiring shares under these regulations; (e)   acquisition of shares in a target company from state-level financial institutions or  their  subsidiaries  or  companies  promoted  by  them,  by  promoters  of  the target  company  pursuant  to  an  agreement  between  such  transferors  and  such promoter; (f)   acquisition  of  shares  in  a  target  company  from  a  venture  capital  fund  50[or category  I  Alternative  Investment  Fund]  or  a  foreign  venture  capital  investor registered with  the Board, by promoters of the target  company  pursuant  to  an agreement  between  such  venture  capital  fund  51 [or  category  I  Alternative Investment Fund] or foreign venture capital investor and such promoters.
(5)  In respect of acquisitions under clause (a) of sub-regulation (1), and clauses (e) and (f) of sub-regulation (4), the acquirer shall intimate the stock exchanges where the shares of the target company are listed, the details of the proposed acquisition in such form as may be specified, at least four working days prior to the proposed acquisition, and the stock exchange shall forthwith disseminate such information to the public.
(6)  In  respect  of  any  acquisition  made  pursuant  to  exemption  provided  for  in  this regulation, the acquirer shall file a report with the stock exchanges where the shares of the target company are listed, in such form as may be specified not later than four working  days  from  the  acquisition,  and  the  stock  exchange  shall  forthwith disseminate such information to the public.
(7)   In  respect  of  any  acquisition  of  or  increase  in  voting  rights  pursuant  to  exemption provided for in clause (a) of sub-regulation (1), sub-clause (iii) of clause (d) of sub- regulation (1), clause (h)  of sub-regulation (1), sub-regulation (2), sub-regulation (3) and clause (c) of sub-regulation (4), clauses (a), (b) and (f) of sub-regulation (4), the acquirer  shall,  within  twenty-one  working  days  of  the  date  of  acquisition,  submit  a report  in  such  form  as  may  be  specified  along  with  supporting  documents  to  the Board giving all details in respect of acquisitions, along with a non-refundable fee of rupees  52[one  lakh  fifty  thousand]  53[by  way  of  direct  credit  in  the  bank  account through  NEFT/RTGS/IMPS  or  any  other  mode  allowed  by  RBI  or]  by  way  of  a banker’s cheque or demand draft payable in Mumbai in favour of the Board. regulation (7) in the case of convertible securities, the date of the acquisition shall be the date of conversion of such securities. Exemptions by the Board.
11.(1)  The  Board  may  for  reasons  recorded  in  writing,  grant  exemption  from  the obligation  to  make  an  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares  under  these  regulations subject to such conditions as the Board deems fit to impose in the interests of investors in securities and the securities market.
(2)  The  Board  may  for  reasons  recorded  in  writing,  grant  a  relaxation  from  strict compliance with any procedural requirement under Chapter III and Chapter IV subject to such conditions as the Board deems fit to impose in the interests of investors in securities and the securities market on being satisfied that,— (a)  the  target  company  is  a  company  in  respect  of  which  the  Central Government  or  State  Government  or  any  other  regulatory  authority  has superseded the board of  directors of the target  company  and has  appointed new directors under any law for the time being in force, if,— (i) such  board  of  directors  has  formulated  a  plan  which  provides  for transparent,  open,  and  competitive  process  for  acquisition  of  shares  or voting  rights  in,  or  control  over  the  target  company  to  secure  the smooth and continued operation of the target  company in the interests of all stakeholders of the target company and such plan does not further the interests of any particular acquirer; (ii)  the  conditions  and  requirements  of  the  competitive  process  are reasonable and fair; (iii)  the process adopted by the board of directors of the target company provides  for  details  including  the  time  when  the  open  offer  for acquiring  shares  would  be  made,  completed  and  the  manner  in  which the change in control would be effected; and (b) the provisions of Chapter III and Chapter IV are likely to act as impediment to  implementation  of  the  plan  of  the  target  company  and  exemption  from strict compliance with  one or more of such provisions is  in public interest, the interests of investors in securities and the securities market.
(3) For  seeking  exemption  under  sub-regulation  (1),  the  acquirer  shall,  and  for seeking  relaxation  under  sub-regulation  (2)  the  target  company  shall  file  an application with  the Board, supported by a duly  sworn affidavit,  giving details of  the  proposed  acquisition  and  the  grounds  on  which  the  exemption  has  been sought.
(4)   The  acquirer  or  the  target  company,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall  along  with  the application  referred  to  under  sub-regulation  (3)  pay  a  non-refundable  fee  of rupees  54[five  lakh],  55[by  way  of  direct  credit  in  the  bank  account  through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or] by way of a banker’s cheque or demand draft payable in Mumbai in favour of the Board.
(5)   The  Board  may  after  affording  reasonable  opportunity  of  being  heard  to  the applicant  and after  considering all the relevant facts  and  circumstances, pass  a reasoned order either granting or rejecting the exemption or relaxation sought as expeditiously as possible: Provided  that  the  Board  may  constitute  a  panel  of  experts  to  which  an application  for  an  exemption  under  sub-regulation  (1)  may,  if  considered necessary,  be  referred  to  make  recommendations  on  the  application  to  the Board.
(6)   The  order  passed  under  sub-regulation  (5)  shall  be  hosted  by  the  Board  on  its official website. CHAPTER – III OPEN OFFER PROCESS Manager to the open offer.
12. (1)  Prior  to  making  a  public  announcement,  the  acquirer  shall  appoint  a  merchant banker registered with the Board, who is not an associate of the acquirer, as the manager to the open offer. same  meaning  as  in  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992.
(2)  The public announcement of the open offer for acquiring shares required under these  regulations  shall  be  made  by  the  acquirer  through  such  manager  to  the open offer. Timing.
13. (1)  The  public  announcement  referred  to  in  regulation  3  and  regulation  4  shall  be made  in  accordance  with  regulation  14  and  regulation  15,  on  the  date  of agreeing  to  acquire  shares  or  voting  rights  in,  or  control  over  the  target company.
(2)  Such public announcement,— (a) in  the case of market  purchases, shall be made  prior to  placement of the  purchase  order  with  the  stock  broker  to  acquire  the  shares,  that would  take  the  entitlement  to  voting  rights  beyond  the  stipulated thresholds; (b)    pursuant to an acquirer acquiring shares or voting rights in, or control over  the  target  company  upon  converting  convertible  securities without a fixed date of conversion or upon conversion of depository receipts for the underlying shares of the target company shall be made on the same day as the date of exercise of the option to convert such securities into shares of the target company; (c) pursuant to an acquirer acquiring shares or voting rights in, or control over  the  target  company  upon  conversion  of  convertible  securities with a fixed date of conversion shall be made on the second working day preceding the scheduled date of conversion of such securities into shares of the target company; (d) pursuant to a disinvestment shall be made on the same day as the date of  executing  the  agreement  for  acquisition  of  shares  or  voting  rights in or control over the target company; (e) in  the  case  of  indirect  acquisition  of  shares  or  voting  rights  in,  or control  over  the  target  company  where  none  of  the  parameters referred to in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 5 are met, may be made at any time within four working days from the earlier of, the date on which the primary acquisition is contracted, and the date on which the intention  or  the  decision  to  make  the  primary  acquisition  is announced in the public domain; (f) in  the  case  of  indirect  acquisition  of  shares  or  voting  rights  in,  or control over the target company where any of the parameters referred to in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 5 are met shall be made on the earlier of, the date on which the primary acquisition is contracted, and the  date  on  which  the  intention  or  the  decision  to  make  the  primary acquisition is announced in the public domain; (g) pursuant to an acquirer acquiring shares or voting rights in, or control over  the  target  company,  under  preferential  issue,  shall  be  made  on the  date  on  which  56[the  board  of  directors  of  the  target  company authorises such preferential issue.]; (h) the  public  announcement  pursuant  to  an  increase  in  voting  rights consequential  to  a  buy-back  not  qualifying  for  exemption  under regulation 10, shall be made not later than the ninetieth day from the date of 57[closure of the buy-back offer by the target company].; (i) the  public  announcement  pursuant  to  any  acquisition  of  shares  or voting rights in or control over the target company where the specific date on which title to such shares, voting rights or control is acquired is beyond the control of the acquirer, shall be made not later than two working  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  intimation  of  having acquired such title. 58 [(2A)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (2),  a  public announcement referred to in regulation 3 and regulation 4 for a proposed acquisition of shares or voting rights in or control over the target company through a combination of,- (i)  an  agreement  and  any  one  or  more  modes  of  acquisition  referred  to  in  sub- regulation (2) of regulation 13, or (ii)   any  one  or  more  modes  of  acquisition  referred  in  clause  (a)  to  (i)  of  sub- regulation (2) of regulation 13, shall be made on the date of first such acquisition, provided the acquirer discloses in the public announcement the details of the proposed subsequent acquisition.]
(3)  The public  announcement  made under  regulation 6 shall be made on the same day  as the date on  which the acquirer takes the  decision to  voluntarily  make a public  announcement  of  an  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares  of  the  target company.
(4)  Pursuant  to  the  public  announcement  made  under  sub-regulation  (1)  and  sub- regulation  (3),  a  detailed  public  statement  shall  be  published  by  the  acquirer through  the  manager  to  the  open  offer  in  accordance  with  regulation  14  and regulation 15, not later than five working days of the public announcement: Provided that the  detailed  public  statement  pursuant to  a  public announcement  made  under  clause  (e)  of  sub-regulation  (2)  shall  be  made  not later  than  five  working  days  of  the  completion  of  the  primary  acquisition  of shares or voting rights in, or control over the company or entity holding shares or voting rights in, or control over the target company. acquiring  the  ability  to  exercise  or  direct  the  exercise  of  voting  rights  in,  or control  over  the  target  company,  the  acquirer  shall  not  be  required  to  make  a detailed  public  statement  of  an  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares  under  these regulations. Publication.
14. (1)    The  public  announcement  shall  be  sent  to  all  the  stock  exchanges  on  which  the shares  of  the  target  company  are  listed,  and  the  stock  exchanges  shall  forthwith disseminate such information to the public.
(2)   A  copy  of  the  public  announcement  shall  be  sent  to  the  Board  and  to  the  target company  at  its registered office within one  working day of the date of the public announcement.
(3)   The detailed public statement pursuant to the public announcement referred to in sub-regulation  (4)  of  regulation  13  shall  be  published  in  all  editions  of  any  one English  national  daily  with  wide  circulation,  any  one  Hindi  national  daily  with wide circulation, and any one regional language daily with wide circulation at the place  where  the  registered  office  of  the  target  company  is  situated  and  one regional  language  daily  at  the  place  of  the  stock  exchange  where  the  maximum volume  of  trading  in  the  shares  of  the  target  company  are  recorded  during  the sixty trading days preceding the date of the public announcement.
(4)  Simultaneously  with  publication  of  such  detailed  public  statement  in  the newspapers, a copy of the same shall be sent to,— (i) the Board through the manager to the open offer, (ii) all  the  stock  exchanges  on  which  the  shares  of  the  target  company are listed, and the stock exchanges shall  forthwith disseminate such information to the public, (iii)      the  target  company  at  its  registered  office,  and  the  target  company shall forthwith circulate it to the members of its board. Contents.
15. (1)  The  public  announcement  shall  contain  such  information  as  may  be  specified, including the following,— (a)  name and identity of the acquirer and persons acting in concert with him; (b) name and identity of the sellers, if any; (c)  nature of the proposed acquisition such as purchase of shares or allotment of shares, or any other means of acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over the target company; (d) the consideration for the proposed acquisition that attracted the obligation to make an open offer for acquiring shares, and the price per share, if any; (e)  the offer price, and mode of payment of consideration; and (f)  offer size, and conditions as to minimum level of acceptances, if any.
(2)  The detailed public statement pursuant to the public announcement shall contain such information as may be specified in order to enable shareholders to make an informed decision with reference to the open offer.
(3)  The public announcement  of the open offer, the detailed public statement,  and any  other  statement,  advertisement,  circular,  brochure,  publicity  material  or letter  of  offer  issued  in  relation  to  the  acquisition  of  shares  under  these regulations shall not omit any relevant information, or contain any misleading information. Filing of letter of offer with the Board.
16. (1)  Within  five  working  days  from  the  date  of  the  detailed  public  statement  made under  sub-regulation  (4)  of  regulation  13,  the  acquirer  shall,  through  the manager  to  the  open  offer,  file  with  the  Board,  a  draft  of  the  letter  of  offer containing  such  information  as  may  be  specified  along  with  a  non-refundable fee,  as  per  the  following  scale, 59[by  way  of  direct  credit  in  the  bank  account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or] by way of a banker’s cheque or demand draft payable in Mumbai in favour of the Board,— 60[ Sl. Consideration payable Fee (Rs.) No. under the Open Offer a. Upto ten crore rupees. Five lakh rupees (Rs. 5,00,000) b.  More  than  ten  crore  rupees,
0.5 per cent of the offer size but  less  than  or  equal  to  one thousand crore rupees. c.  More than one thousand crore Five  crore  rupees  (Rs.  5,00,00,000) rupees. plus 0.125 per cent of the portion of the  offer  size  in  excess  of  one thousand crore rupees
(1000,00,00,000). ] substitution, the table in sub-regulation (1), read as under, “ Sl. No. a. b. c. d. Consideration  payable  under  the Open Offer Upto ten crore rupees. More than ten crore rupees, but less than  or  equal  to  one  thousand  crore rupees. than  one More thousand  crore rupees, but less than or equal to five thousand crore rupees. More rupees. thousand  crore than  five Fee (Rs.) One  lakh  twenty  five  thousands  rupees  ( 1,25,000) One  lakh  twenty  five  thousands  rupees  ( 1,25,000) plus 0.025 per cent of the portion of  the  offer  size  in  excess  of  ten  crore rupees ( 10,00,00,000). One  crore  twenty  five  lakh  rupees  ( 1,25,00,000)  plus  0.03125  per  cent  of  the portion  of  the  offer  size  in  excess  of  one thousand crore rupees ( 1000,00,00,000). 2,50,00,000) Two crore fifty lakh rupees ( plus 0.01 per cent of the portion of the offer size in excess of five thousand crore rupees
( 5000,00,00,000),  subject  to  a  maximum of three crore rupees ( 3,00,00,000). “.
(2) The consideration payable under the open offer shall be calculated at the offer price, assuming full acceptance of the open offer, and in the event the open offer is subject to  differential  pricing,  shall  be  computed  at  the  highest  offer  price,  irrespective  of manner of payment of the consideration: Provided that in the event of consideration payable under the open offer being enhanced  owing  to  a  revision  to  the  offer  price  or  offer  size  the  fees  payable  shall stand revised accordingly, and shall be paid within five working days from the date of such revision.
(3)  The manager to the open offer shall provide soft copies of the public announcement, the  detailed  public  statement  and  the  draft  letter  of  offer  in  accordance  with  such specifications  as  may  be  specified,  and  the  Board  shall  upload  the  same  on  its website.
(4)  The  Board  shall  give  its  comments  on  the  draft  letter  of  offer  as  expeditiously  as possible  but  not  later  than  fifteen  working  days  of  the  receipt  of  the  draft  letter  of offer and in the event of no comments being issued by the Board within such period, it shall be deemed that the Board does not have comments to offer: Provided  that  in  the  event  the  Board  has  sought  clarifications  or  additional information from the manager to the open offer, the period for issuance of comments shall  be  extended  to  the  fifth  working  day  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  satisfactory reply to the clarification or additional information sought. Provided  further  that  in  the  event  the  Board  specifies  any  changes,  the manager to the open offer and the acquirer shall carry out such changes in the letter of offer before it is dispatched to the shareholders.
(5) In  the  case  of  competing  offers,  the  Board  shall  provide  its  comments  on  the  draft letter of offer in respect of each competing offer on the same day.
(6) In the event the disclosures in the draft letter of offer are inadequate the Board may call  for  a  revised  letter  of  offer  and  shall  deal  with  the  revised  letter  of  offer  in accordance with sub-regulation (4). Provision of escrow.
17. (1)  Not  later  than  two  working  days  prior  to  the  date  of  the  detailed  public statement  of  the  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares,  the  acquirer  shall  create  an  escrow account  towards security for performance of his  obligations under these regulations, and deposit in escrow account such aggregate amount as per the following scale: Sl. Consideration payable under Escrow Amount No. the Open Offer a. On the first five hundred crore an amount equal to twenty-five per cent of rupees the consideration b. On the balance consideration an additional amount equal to ten per cent of the balance consideration Provided that where an open offer is made conditional upon minimum level of acceptance, hundred percent of the consideration payable in respect of minimum level of  acceptance  or  fifty  per  cent  of  the  consideration  payable  under  the  open  offer, whichever is higher, shall be deposited in cash in the escrow account. 61[Provided  further  that    in    case    of    indirect    acquisitions    where    public announcement  has  been  made  in  terms  of  clause  (e)  of  sub-regulation  (2)  of regulation  13  of  these  regulations,  an  amount  equivalent  to  hundred  per  cent  of  the consideration payable in the open offer shall be deposited in the escrow account.]
(2)  The consideration payable under the open offer shall be computed as provided for in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 16 and in the event of an upward revision of the offer price  or  of  the  offer  size,  the  value  of  the  escrow  amount  shall  be  computed  on  the revised consideration calculated at such revised offer price, and the additional amount shall be brought into the escrow account prior to effecting such revision.
(3)  The escrow account referred to in sub-regulation (1) may be in the form of,— (a) cash deposited with any scheduled commercial bank; (b)  bank  guarantee  issued  in  favour  of  the  manager  to  the  open  offer  by  any scheduled commercial bank; or (c)  deposit of frequently traded and freely transferable equity shares or other freely transferable securities with appropriate margin: Provided  that  securities  sought  to  be  provided  towards  escrow account under clause (c) shall be required to conform to the requirements set out in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 9. 62 [Provided  further  that  the  deposit  of  securities  shall  not  be permitted  in  respect  of  indirect  acquisitions  where  public  announcement  has been made in  terms  of  clause  (e)  of  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  13  of these regulations] clause (a) above may be maintained in an interest bearing account, subject to the merchant  banker  ensuring  that  the  funds  are  available  at  the  time  of  making payment to the shareholders.]
(4) In  the  event  of  the  escrow  account  being  created  by  way  of  a  bank  guarantee  or  by deposit  of  securities,  the  acquirer  shall  also  ensure  that  at  least  one  per  cent  of  the total consideration payable is deposited in cash with a scheduled commercial bank as a part of the escrow account.
(5)  For  such  part  of  the  escrow  account  as  is  in  the  form  of  a  cash  deposit  with  a scheduled  commercial  bank,  the  acquirer  shall  while  opening  the  account,  empower the  manager  to  the  open  offer  to  instruct  the  bank  to  issue  a  banker’s  cheque  or demand  draft  or  to  make  payment  of  the  amounts  lying  to  the  credit  of  the  escrow account, in accordance with requirements under these regulations.
(6)  For such part of the escrow account as is in the form of a bank guarantee, such bank guarantee shall be in favour of the manager to the open offer and shall be kept valid throughout  the  offer  period  and  for  an  additional  period  of  thirty  days  after completion  of  payment  of  consideration  to  shareholders  who  have  tendered  their shares in acceptance of the open offer.
(7)  For such part of the escrow account as is in the form of securities, the acquirer shall empower the manager to the open offer to realise the value of such escrow account by sale or otherwise, and in the event there is any shortfall in the amount required to be maintained  in  the  escrow  account,  the  manager  to  the  open  offer  shall  be  liable  to make good such shortfall.
(8)  The manager to the open offer shall not release the escrow account until the expiry of thirty  days  from  the  completion  of  payment  of  consideration  to  shareholders  who have  tendered  their  shares  in  acceptance  of  the  open  offer,  save  and  except  for transfer of funds to the special escrow account as required under regulation 21.
(9) In the event of non-fulfillment of obligations under these regulations by the acquirer the Board may direct the manager to the open offer to  forfeit the escrow account or any amounts lying in the special escrow account, either in full or in part.
(10)  The  escrow  account  deposited  with  the  bank  in  cash  shall  be  released  only  in  the following manner,— (a) the entire amount to the acquirer upon withdrawal of offer in terms of regulation 23 as certified by the manager to the open offer: Provided that in the event the withdrawal is pursuant to clause (c) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 23, the manager to the open offer shall release the escrow account upon receipt of confirmation of such release from the Board; (b) for transfer of an amount not exceeding ninety per cent of the escrow account, to the special escrow account in accordance with regulation 21; (c) to  the  acquirer,  the  balance  of  the  escrow  account  after  transfer  of  cash  to  the special  escrow  account,  on  the  expiry  of  thirty  days  from  the  completion  of payment  of  consideration  to  shareholders  who  have  tendered  their  shares  in acceptance of the open offer, as certified by the manager to the open offer; (d) the  entire  amount  to  the  acquirer  upon  the  expiry  of  thirty  days  from  the completion of payment of consideration to shareholders who have tendered their shares in acceptance of the open offer, upon certification by the manager to the open  offer,  where  the  open  offer  is  for  exchange  of  shares  or  other  secured instruments; (e) the entire amount to the manager to the open offer, in the event of forfeiture for non-fulfillment of any of the obligations under these regulations, for distribution in  the  following  manner,  after  deduction  of  expenses,  if  any,  of  registered market intermediaries associated with the open offer,— (i) one third of the escrow account to the target company; (ii)  one  third  of  the  escrow  account  to  the  Investor  Protection  and Education  Fund  established  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange Board  of India (Investor  Protection  and  Education  Fund) Regulations, 2009; and (iii)  one third of the escrow account to be distributed pro-rata among the shareholders who have accepted the open offer. Other procedures.
18. (1)  Simultaneously with  the filing of the draft letter of offer with  the Board  under sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  16,  the  acquirer  shall  send  a  copy  of  the  draft letter  of  offer  to  the  target  company  at  its  registered  office  address  and  to  all stock exchanges where the shares of the target company are listed.
(2)  The letter of offer shall be dispatched to the shareholders whose names appear on the register of members of the target company as of the identified date, not later than seven working days from the receipt of comments from the Board or where no comments are offered by the Board, within seven working days from the expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (4) of regulation 16: mode in accordance with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013. (ii) On receipt of a request from any shareholder to receive a copy of the letter of offer in physical format, the same shall be provided. (iii) The aforesaid shall be disclosed in the letter of offer.] Provided  that  where  local  laws  or  regulations  of  any  jurisdiction outside India may expose the acquirer or the target company to material risk of civil, regulatory or criminal liabilities in the event the letter of offer in its final form  were  to  be  sent  without  material  amendments  or  modifications  into  such jurisdiction,  and  the  shareholders  resident  in  such  jurisdiction  hold  shares entitling  them  to  less  than  five  per  cent  of  the  voting  rights  of  the  target company, the acquirer may refrain from dispatch of the letter of offer into such jurisdiction: Provided  further  that  every  person  holding  shares,  regardless  of whether  he  held  shares  on  the  identified  date  or  has  not  received  the  letter  of offer, shall be entitled to tender such shares in acceptance of the open offer.
(3) Simultaneously with the dispatch of the letter of offer in terms of sub-regulation
(2),  the  acquirer  shall  send  the  letter  of  offer  to  the  custodian  of  shares underlying depository receipts, if any, of the target company.
(4) Irrespective of whether a competing offer has been made, an acquirer may make upward revisions to the offer price, and subject to the other provisions of these regulations, to the number of shares sought to be acquired under the open offer, at  any  time  prior  to  the  commencement  of  the  last 65[one  working  day]  before the commencement of the tendering period.
(5) In  the  event  of  any  revision  of  the  open  offer,  whether  by  way  of  an  upward revision in offer price, or of the offer size, the acquirer shall,— (a)  make  corresponding  increases  to  the  amount  kept  in  escrow  account  under regulation 17 prior to such revision; (b) make an announcement in respect of such revisions in all the newspapers in which the detailed public statement pursuant to the public announcement was made; and (c)  simultaneously with  the  issue of such an announcement, inform  the Board, all the stock exchanges on which the shares of the target company are listed, and the target company at its registered office.
(6) The  acquirer  shall  disclose  during  the  offer  period  every  acquisition  made  by the  acquirer  or  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him  of  any  shares  of  the  target company in such form as may be specified, to each of the stock exchanges on which the shares of the target company are listed and to the target company at its registered office within twenty-four hours of such acquisition, and the stock exchanges shall forthwith disseminate such information to the public: Provided  that  the  acquirer  and  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him shall  not  acquire  or  sell  any  shares  of  the  target  company  during  the  period between three working days prior to the commencement of the tendering period and until the expiry of the tendering period. 66 [(6A)  The  acquirer  shall  facilitate  tendering  of  shares  by  the  shareholders  and settlement of the same, through the stock exchange mechanism as specified by the Board.]
(7) The acquirer shall issue an advertisement in such form as may be specified, one working day before the commencement of the tendering period, announcing the schedule  of  activities  for  the  open  offer,  the  status  of  statutory  and  other approvals,  if  any,  whether  for  the  acquisition  attracting  the  obligation  to  make an  open  offer  under  these  regulations  or  for  the  open  offer,  unfulfilled conditions, if any, and their status, the procedure for tendering acceptances and such other material detail as may be specified: Provided that such advertisement shall be,— (a)  published in  all the newspapers in  which the detailed public statement pursuant to the public announcement was made; and (b) simultaneously sent to the Board, all the stock exchanges on which the shares  of  the  target  company  are  listed,  and  the  target  company  at  its registered office.
(8) The tendering period shall start not later than twelve working days from date of receipt  of  comments  from  the  Board  under  sub-regulation  (4)  of  regulation  16 and shall remain open for ten working days.
(9) Shareholders who have tendered shares in acceptance of the open offer shall not be entitled to withdraw such acceptance during the tendering period.
(10)  The acquirer shall, within ten working days from the last date of the tendering period,  complete  all  requirements  under  these  regulations  and  other  applicable law  relating  to  the  open  offer  including  payment  of  consideration  to  the shareholders who have accepted the open offer.
(11)  The  acquirer  shall  be  responsible  to  pursue  all  statutory  approvals  required  by the acquirer in order to complete the open offer without any default, neglect or delay: Provided that where the acquirer is  unable to  make the payment  to the shareholders who have accepted the open offer within such period owing to non-receipt  of  statutory  approvals  required  by  the  acquirer,  the  Board  may, where  it  is  satisfied  that  such  non-receipt  was  not  attributable  to  any  willful default,  failure  or  neglect  on  the  part  of  the  acquirer  to  diligently  pursue  such approvals, grant extension of time for making payments, subject to the acquirer agreeing to pay interest to the shareholders for the delay at such rate as may be specified: Provided further that where the statutory approval extends to some but not all shareholders, the acquirer shall have the option to make payment to such  shareholders  in  respect  of  whom  no  statutory  approvals  are  required  in order to complete the open offer. 67[(11A)  Without  prejudice  to  sub-regulation  11,  in  case  the  acquirer  is  unable  to  make payment  to  the  shareholders  who  have  accepted  the  open  offer  within  such period,  the  acquirer  shall  pay  interest  for  the  period  of  delay  to  all  such shareholders whose shares have been accepted in the open offer, at the rate of ten per cent per annum: Provided that in case  the  delay  was  not  attributable  to  any  act of  omission  or  commission  of  the  acquirer,  or  due  to  the  reasons  or circumstances  beyond  the  control  of  acquirer,  the  Board  may  grant  waiver from the payment of interest. Provided  further that  the  payment  of  interest  would  be  without prejudice to the Board taking any action under regulation 32 of  these regulation or under the Act.]
(12)      (a) The acquirer shall issue a post offer advertisement  in  such form as may be specified  within    five  working  days  after  the  offer  period,  giving  details including  aggregate  number  of  shares  tendered,  accepted,  date  of  payment  of consideration. (b) Such advertisement shall be,— (i)      published  in  all  the  newspapers  in  which  the  detailed  public statement pursuant to the public announcement was made; and (ii)  simultaneously sent to the Board, all the stock exchanges on which the shares of the target company are listed, and the target company at its registered office. Conditional offer.
19. (1)  An  acquirer  may  make  an  open  offer  conditional  as  to  the  minimum  level  of acceptance: Provided  that  where  the  open  offer  is  pursuant  to  an  agreement, such  agreement  shall  contain  a  condition  to  the  effect  that  in  the  event  the desired  level  of  acceptance  of  the  open  offer  is  not  received  the  acquirer  shall not  acquire  any  shares  under  the  open  offer  and  the  agreement  attracting  the obligation to make the open offer shall stand rescinded.
(2)   Where an open offer is  made conditional upon minimum  level  of acceptances, the acquirer and persons acting in concert with him shall not acquire, during the offer period, any shares in the target company except under the  open offer and any underlying agreement for the sale of shares of the target company pursuant to which the open offer is made. Competing offers.
20. (1)  Upon  a  public  announcement  of  an  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares  of  a  target company  being  made,  any  person,  other  than  the  acquirer  who  has  made  such public  announcement,  shall  be  entitled  to  make  a  public  announcement  of  an open  offer  within  fifteen  working  days  of  the  date  of  the  detailed  public statement made by the acquirer who has made the first public announcement.
(2)  The  open  offer  made  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  for  such  number  of shares which, when taken together with shares held by such acquirer along with persons acting in concert with him, shall be at least equal to the holding of the acquirer who has made the first public announcement, including the number of shares  proposed  to  be  acquired  by  him  under  the  offer  and  any  underlying agreement  for  the  sale  of  shares  of  the  target  company  pursuant  to  which  the open offer is made.
(3)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  these  regulations,  an  open  offer  made within  the  period  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  not  be  regarded  as  a voluntary open offer under regulation 6, and the provisions of these regulations shall apply accordingly.
(4) Every  open  offer  made  under  sub-regulation  (1)  and  the  open  offer  first  made shall be regarded as competing offers for purposes of these regulations.
(5) No person shall be entitled to make a public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares, or enter into any transaction that  would attract  the obligation to  make  a  public  announcement  of  an  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares  under these  regulations,  after  the  period  of  fifteen  working  days  referred  to  in  sub- regulation (1) and until the expiry of the offer period for such open offer.
(6) Unless the open offer first made is an open offer conditional as to the minimum level  of  acceptances,  no  acquirer  making  a  competing  offer  may  be  made conditional as to the minimum level of acceptances.
(7) No person shall be entitled to make a public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares, or enter into any transaction that  would attract  the obligation to  make  a  public  announcement  of  an  open  offer  under  these  regulations  until the expiry of the offer period where,— (a) the  open  offer  is  for  acquisition  of  shares  pursuant  to  disinvestment,  in terms of clause (d) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 13; or (b) the open offer is pursuant to a relaxation from strict compliance with the provisions of Chapter  III or Chapter  IV  granted  by the  Board under sub- regulation (2) of regulation 11.
(8) The schedule of activities and the tendering period for all competing offers shall be carried out  with  identical  timelines and the last  date for tendering shares in acceptance of the every competing offer shall stand revised to the last date for tendering shares in acceptance of the competing offer last made.
(9) Upon the public announcement of a competing offer, an acquirer who had made a  preceding  competing  offer  shall  be  entitled  to  revise  the  terms  of  his  open offer provided the revised terms are more favourable to the shareholders of the target company: Provided  that  the  acquirers  making  the  competing  offers  shall  be entitled  to  make  upward  revisions  of  the  offer  price  at  any  time  up  to 68[one working day] prior to the commencement of the tendering period.
(10)    Except  for  variations  made  under  this  regulation,  all  the  provisions  of  these regulations shall apply to every competing offer. Payment of consideration.
21.(1) For the amount of consideration payable in cash, the acquirer shall open a special escrow account  with a banker to an issue registered with the Board and deposit therein,  such  sum  as  would,  together  with  cash  transferred  under  clause  (b)  of sub-regulation (10) of regulation 17, make up the entire sum due and payable to the shareholders as consideration payable under the open offer, and empower the manager  to  the  offer  to  operate  the  special  escrow  account  on  behalf  of  the acquirer for the purposes under these regulations.
(2)        Subject  to  provisos  to  sub-regulation  (11)  of  regulation  18,  the  acquirer  shall complete  payment  of  consideration  whether  in  the  form  of  cash,  or  as  the  case may be, by issue, exchange or transfer of securities, to all shareholders who have tendered shares in acceptance of the open offer, within ten working days of the expiry of the tendering period.
(3)   Unclaimed  balances,  if  any,  lying  to  the  credit  of  the  special  escrow  account referred to in sub-regulation (1) at the end of seven years from the date of deposit thereof,  shall  be  transferred  to  the  Investor  Protection  and  Education  Fund established  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Investor Protection and Education Fund) Regulations, 2009. Completion of acquisition.
22.(1) The  acquirer  shall  not  complete  the  acquisition of  shares  or  voting  rights  in,  or control over, the target company, whether by way of subscription to shares or a purchase of shares attracting the obligation to make an open offer for acquiring shares, until the expiry of the offer period: Provided  that  in  case  of  an  offer  made  under  sub-regulation  (1)  of regulation 20, pursuant to a preferential allotment, the offer shall be completed within  the  period  as  provided  under  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  74  of Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure) Regulations, 2009. 69[Provided  further  that  in  case  of  a  delisting  offer  made  under regulation  5A,  the  acquirer  shall  complete  the  acquisition  of  shares  attracting the obligation to make an offer for acquiring shares in terms of regulations 3, 4 or  5,  only  after  making  the  public  announcement  regarding  the  success  of  the delisting  proposal  made  in  terms  of  sub-regulation  (1)  regulation  18  of Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Delisting  of  Equity  Shares) Regulations, 2009.]
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), subject to the acquirer depositing in the escrow account under regulation 17, cash of an amount equal to 70 [the  entire]  consideration  payable  under  the  open  offer  assuming  full acceptance of the open offer, the parties to such agreement may after the expiry of twenty-one working days from the date of detailed public statement, act upon the agreement and the acquirer may complete the acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over the target company as contemplated. 71[(2A)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  an  acquirer  may acquire  shares  of  the  target  company  through  preferential  issue  or  through  the stock exchange settlement process, 72[***] subject to,- (i) (ii) such shares being kept in an escrow account, the acquirer not exercising any voting rights over such shares kept in the escrow account: Provided that such shares may be transferred to the account of the acquirer, subject  to  the  acquirer  complying  with  requirements  specified  in  sub-regulation
(2).] (3) The  acquirer  shall  complete  the  acquisitions  contracted  under  any  agreement attracting  the  obligation  to  make  an  open  offer  not  later  than  twenty-six  weeks from the expiry of the offer period: Provided  that  in  the  event  of  any  extraordinary  and  supervening circumstances  rendering  it  impossible  to  complete  such  acquisition  within  such period,  the  Board  may  for  reasons  to  be  published,  may  grant  an  extension  of time by such period as it may deem fit in the interests of investors in securities and the securities market. Withdrawal of open offer.
23.(1)  An  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares  once  made  shall  not  be  withdrawn  except  under any of the following circumstances,— (a) statutory approvals  required for the open offer or for effecting the acquisitions attracting  the  obligation  to  make  an  open  offer  under  these  regulations  having been  finally  refused,  subject  to  such  requirements  for  approval  having  been specifically disclosed in the detailed public statement and the letter of offer; (b) the acquirer, being a natural person, has died; (c) any  condition  stipulated  in  the  agreement  for  acquisition  attracting  the obligation to make the open offer is not met for reasons outside the reasonable control  of  the  acquirer,  and  such  agreement  is  rescinded,  subject  to  such conditions  having  been  specifically  disclosed  in  the  detailed  public  statement and the letter of offer;  or 73[Provided  that  an  acquirer  shall  not  withdraw  an  open  offer  pursuant  to  a public announcement made under clause (g) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 13,  even  if  the  proposed  acquisition  through  the  preferential  issue  is  not successful.] (d) such circumstances as in the opinion of the Board, merit withdrawal. shall  pass  a  reasoned  order  permitting  withdrawal,  and  such  order  shall  be hosted by the Board on its official website.
(2) In  the  event  of  withdrawal  of  the  open  offer,  the  acquirer  shall  through  the manager to the open offer, within two working days,— (a)  make  an  announcement  in  the  same  newspapers  in  which  the  public announcement  of  the  open  offer  was  published,  providing  the  grounds  and reasons for withdrawal of the open offer; and (b) simultaneously with the announcement, inform in writing to,— (i) the Board; (ii)  all  the  stock  exchanges  on  which  the  shares  of  the  target  company are  listed,  and  the  stock  exchanges  shall  forthwith  disseminate  such information to the public; and (iii)   the target company at its registered office. CHAPTER - IV OTHER OBLIGATIONS Directors of the target company.
24.(1) During  the  offer  period,  no  person  representing  the  acquirer  or  any  person acting  in  concert  with  him  shall  be  appointed  as  director  on  the  board  of directors of the target company, whether as an additional director or in a casual vacancy: Provided that after an initial period of fifteen working days from the date  of  detailed  public  statement,  appointment  of  persons  representing  the acquirer or persons acting in concert with him on the board of directors may be effected in the event the acquirer deposits in cash in the escrow account referred to in regulation 17, 74[the entire] consideration payable under the open offer: Provided further that where the acquirer has specified conditions to which  the  open  offer  is  subject  in  terms  of  clause  (c)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of regulation  23,  no  director  representing  the  acquirer  may  be  appointed  to  the board  of  directors  of  the  target  company  during  the  offer  period  unless  the acquirer  has  waived  or  attained  such  conditions  and  complies  with  the requirement of depositing cash in the escrow account.
(2)  Where  an  open  offer  is  made  conditional  upon  minimum  level  of  acceptances,  the acquirer  and  persons  acting  in  concert  shall,  notwithstanding  anything  contained  in these  regulations,  and  regardless  of  the  size  of  the  cash  deposited  in  the  escrow account referred to regulation 17, not be entitled to appoint any director representing the acquirer or any person acting in concert with him on the board of directors of the target company during the offer period.
(3)  During  the  pendency  of  competing  offers,  notwithstanding  anything  contained  in these  regulations,  and  regardless  of  the  size  of  the  cash  deposited  in  the  escrow account referred to in regulation 17, by any acquirer or person acting in concert with him, there shall be no induction of any new director to  the board of directors of the target company: Provided  that  in  the  event  of  death  or  incapacitation  of  any  director,  the vacancy  arising  therefrom  may  be  filled  by  any  person  subject  to  approval  of  such appointment by shareholders of the target company by way of a postal ballot.
(4) In the event the acquirer or any person acting in  concert is already represented by a director on the board of the target company, such director shall not participate in any deliberations of the board of directors of the target company or vote on any matter in relation to the open offer. Obligations of the acquirer.
25(1)   Prior to making the public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares under these regulations, the acquirer shall ensure that firm financial arrangements have been made for fulfilling the payment obligations under the open offer and that the acquirer is  able  to  implement  the  open  offer,  subject  to  any  statutory  approvals  for  the  open offer that may be necessary.
(2)  In the event the acquirer has not declared an intention in the detailed public statement and the letter of offer to alienate any material assets of the target company or of any of  its  subsidiaries  whether  by  way  of  sale,  lease,  encumbrance  or  otherwise  outside the ordinary course of business, the acquirer, where he has acquired control over the target  company,  shall  be  debarred  from  causing  such  alienation  for  a  period  of  two years after the offer period: Provided  that  in  the  event  the  target  company  or  any  of  its  subsidiaries  is required  to  so  alienate  assets  despite  the  intention  to  alienate  not  having  been expressed by the acquirer, such alienation shall require a special resolution passed by shareholders of the target company, by way of a postal ballot and the notice for such  postal  ballot  shall  inter  alia  contain  reasons  as  to  why  such  alienation  is necessary.
(3)     The acquirer shall ensure that the contents of the public announcement, the detailed public  statement,  the  letter  of  offer  and  the  post-offer  advertisement  are  true,  fair and adequate in all material  aspects  and not  misleading in  any  material  particular, and are based on reliable sources, and state the source wherever necessary.
(4)  The acquirer and persons acting in concert with him shall not sell shares of the target company held by them, during the offer period.
(5)  The  acquirer  and  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him  shall  be  jointly  and  severally responsible for fulfillment of applicable obligations under these regulations. Obligations of the target company.
26.(1)  Upon  a  public  announcement  of  an  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares  of  a  target company  being  made,  the  board  of  directors  of  such  target  company  shall  ensure that during the offer period, the business of the target company is conducted in the ordinary course consistent with past practice.
(2)  During the offer period, unless the approval of shareholders of the target company by way of a special resolution by postal ballot is obtained, the board of directors of either the target company or any of its subsidiaries shall not,— (a) alienate  any  material  assets  whether  by  way  of  sale,  lease,  encumbrance  or otherwise  or  enter  into  any  agreement  therefor  outside  the  ordinary  course  of business; (b)  effect any material borrowings outside the ordinary course of business; (c)    issue  or  allot    any  authorised  but  unissued  securities  entitling  the  holder  to voting rights: Provided that the target company or its subsidiaries may,— (i)  issue  or  allot  shares  upon  conversion  of  convertible  securities  issued prior to the public announcement of the open offer, in accordance with pre-determined terms of such conversion; (ii) issue or allot shares pursuant to any public issue in respect of which the red herring prospectus  has been filed with  the Registrar of Companies prior to the public announcement of the open offer; or (iii)issue or allot shares pursuant to any rights issue in respect of which the record date has been announced prior to the public announcement of the open offer; (d) implement  any  buy-back  of  shares  or  effect  any  other  change  to  the  capital structure of the target company; (e) enter  into,  amend  or  terminate  any  material  contracts  to  which  the  target company  or  any  of  its  subsidiaries  is  a  party,  outside  the  ordinary  course  of business,  whether  such  contract  is  with  a  related  party,  within  the  meaning  of the term under applicable accounting principles, or with any other person; and (f) accelerate  any  contingent  vesting  of  a  right  of  any  person  to  whom  the  target company  or  any  of  its  subsidiaries  may  have  an  obligation,  whether  such obligation is to acquire shares of the target company by way of employee stock options or otherwise.
(3) In any general meeting of a subsidiary of the target company in respect of the matters referred to in sub-regulation (2), the target company and its subsidiaries, if any, shall vote in a manner consistent with the special resolution passed by the shareholders of the target company.
(4)  The  target  company  shall  be  prohibited  from  fixing  any  record  date  for  a  corporate action on or after the third working day prior to the commencement of the tendering period and until the expiry of the tendering period.
(5)  The  target  company  shall  furnish  to  the  acquirer  within  two  working  days  from  the identified  date,  a  list  of  shareholders  as  per  the  register  of  members  of  the  target company  containing  names,  addresses,  shareholding  and  folio  number,  in  electronic form,  wherever  available,  and  a  list  of  persons  whose  applications,  if  any,  for registration of transfer of shares are pending with the target company: Provided  that  the  acquirer  shall  reimburse  reasonable  costs  payable  by the target company to external agencies in order to furnish such information.
(6)  Upon  receipt  of  the  detailed  public  statement,  the  board  of  directors  of  the  target company  shall  constitute  a  committee  of  independent  directors  to  provide  reasoned recommendations  on  such  open  offer,  and  the  target  company  shall  publish  such recommendations: Provided  that  such  committee  shall  be  entitled  to  seek  external professional advice at the expense of the target company.
(7)  The  committee  of  independent  directors  shall  provide  its  written  reasoned recommendations  on  the  open  offer  to  the  shareholders  of  the  target  company  and such recommendations shall be published  in such form  as may be specified,  at  least two  working  days  before  the  commencement  of  the  tendering  period,  in  the  same newspapers  where  the  public  announcement  of  the  open  offer  was  published,  and simultaneously, a copy of the same shall be sent to,— (i) the Board; (ii)  all the stock exchanges on which the shares of the target company are listed, and the stock exchanges shall forthwith disseminate such information to the public; and (iii)  to  the manager to  the open offer, and where there are competing offers, to the manager to the open offer for every competing offer.
(8)  The  board  of  directors  of  the  target  company  shall  facilitate  the  acquirer  in verification of shares tendered in acceptance of the open offer.
(9)  The  board  of  directors  of  the  target  company  shall  make  available  to  all  acquirers making competing offers, any information and co-operation provided to any acquirer who has made a competing offer.
(10)  Upon fulfillment by the acquirer, of the conditions required under these regulations, the  board  of  directors  of  the  target  company  shall  without  any  delay  register  the transfer  of  shares  acquired  by  the  acquirer  in  physical  form,  whether  under  the agreement or from open market purchases, or pursuant to the open offer. Obligations of the manager to the open offer.
27.(1)  Prior  to  public  announcement  being  made,  the  manager  to  the  open  offer  shall ensure that,— (a) the acquirer is able to implement the open offer; and (b) firm arrangements for funds through verifiable means have been made by the acquirer to meet the payment obligations under the open offer.
(2)  The  manager  to  the  open  offer  shall  ensure  that  the  contents  of  the  public announcement, the detailed public statement  and the letter of offer  and the post- offer  advertisement  are  true,  fair  and  adequate  in  all  material  aspects,  not misleading  in  any  material  particular,  are  based  on  reliable  sources,  state  the source  wherever  necessary,  and  are  in  compliance  with  the  requirements  under these regulations.
(3) The  manager  to  the  open  offer  shall  furnish  to  the  Board  a  due  diligence certificate along with the draft letter of offer filed under regulation 16.
(4) The manager to the open offer shall ensure that market intermediaries engaged for the purposes of the open offer are registered with the Board.
(5)      The  manager  to  the  open  offer  shall  exercise  diligence,  care  and  professional judgment to ensure compliance with these regulations.
(6)    The manager to the open offer shall not deal on his own account in the shares of the target company during the offer period.
(7)      The  manager  to  the  open  offer  shall  file  a  report  with  the  Board  within  fifteen working  days  from  the  expiry  of  the  tendering  period,  in  such  form  as  may  be specified, confirming status of completion of various open offer requirements. CHAPTER - V DISCLOSURES OF SHAREHOLDING AND CONTROL Disclosure-related provisions.
28.(1)  The  disclosures  under  this  Chapter  shall  be  of  the  aggregated  shareholding  and voting  rights  of  the  acquirer  or  promoter  of  the  target  company  or  every  person acting in concert with him.
(2) For  the  purposes  of  this  Chapter,  the  acquisition  and  holding  of  any  convertible security shall also be regarded as shares, and disclosures of such acquisitions and holdings shall be made accordingly.
75[(3) For the purposes of this Chapter, the term “encumbrance” shall include,- (a) any restriction on the free and marketable title to shares, by whatever name (b) (c) called, whether executed directly or indirectly; pledge, lien, negative lien, non-disposal undertaking; or any  covenant,  transaction,  condition  or  arrangement  in  the  nature  of encumbrance,  by  whatever  name  called,  whether  executed  directly  or indirectly.]
(4)        Upon  receipt  of  the  disclosures  required  under  this  Chapter,  the  stock  exchange shall forthwith disseminate the information so received. Disclosure of acquisition and disposal.
29.(1)  Any  acquirer  who  acquires  shares  or  voting  rights  in  a  target  company  which taken  together  with  shares  or  voting  rights,  if  any,  held  by  him  and  by  persons acting in concert with him in such target company, aggregating to five per cent or more  of  the  shares  of  such  target  company,  shall  disclose  their  aggregate shareholding  and  voting  rights  in  such  target  company  in  such  form  as  may  be specified.
76[(2) Any person, who together with persons acting in concert with him, holds shares or voting rights entitling them to five per cent or more of the shares or voting rights in a target company, shall disclose the number of shares or voting rights held and change  in  shareholding  or  voting  rights,  even  if  such  change  results  in shareholding falling below five per cent, if there has been change in such holdings from  the  last  disclosure  made  under  sub-regulation  (1)  or  under  this  sub- regulation; and such change exceeds two per cent of total shareholding or voting rights in the target company, in such form as may be specified.]
(3)    The disclosures required under sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation (2) shall be made within two working days of the receipt of intimation of allotment of shares, or  the  acquisition  77 [or  the  disposal]  of  shares  or  voting  rights  in  the  target company to,— (a)  every stock exchange where the shares of the target company are listed; and (b) the target company at its registered office.
(4)     For the purposes of this  regulation, shares taken by way of  encumbrance shall be treated as an acquisition, shares given upon release of encumbrance shall be treated as  a  disposal,  and  disclosures  shall  be  made  by  such  person  accordingly  in  such form as may be specified: Provided  that  such  requirement  shall  not  apply  to  a  scheduled commercial bank or public financial institution 78[or a housing finance company or a systemically important non-banking financial company] as pledgee in connection with a pledge of shares for securing indebtedness in the ordinary course of business. A.  a  “housing  finance  company”  means  a  housing  finance  company registered with the National Housing Bank for carrying on the business of  housing  finance  and  is  either  deposit  taking  or  having  asset  size worth rupees five hundred crores or more; and B.  a  “systemically  important  non-banking  financial  company”  shall  have the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  it  in  the  Securities  and  Exchange Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2018.] Continual disclosures.
30(1)   Every person, who together with persons acting in concert with him, holds shares or voting  rights  entitling  him  to  exercise  twenty-five  per  cent  or  more  of  the  voting rights  in  a  target  company,  shall  disclose  their  aggregate  shareholding  and  voting rights as of the thirty-first day of March, in such target company in such form as may be specified.
(2) The promoter of every target company shall together with persons acting in concert with him, disclose their aggregate shareholding and voting rights as of the thirty-first day of March, in such target company in such form as may be specified.
(3)  The  disclosures  required  under  sub-regulation  (1)  and  sub-regulation  (2)  shall  be made within seven working days from the end of each financial year to,— (a)  every stock exchange where the shares of the target company are listed; and (b) the target company at its registered office. Disclosure of encumbered shares.
31(1)   The promoter of every target company shall disclose details of shares in such target company encumbered by him or by persons acting in concert with him in such form as may be specified.
(2)  The  promoter  of  every  target  company  shall  disclose  details  of  any  invocation  of such encumbrance or release of such encumbrance of shares in such form as may be specified.
(3)    The  disclosures  required  under  sub-regulation  (1)  and  sub-regulation  (2)  shall  be made  within  seven  working  days  from  the  creation  or  invocation  or  release  of encumbrance, as the case may be to,— (a)  every stock exchange where the shares of the target company are listed; and (b) the target company at its registered office.
80[(4) The promoter of every target company shall declare on a yearly basis that he, along with  persons  acting  in  concert,  has  not  made  any  encumbrance,  directly  or indirectly, other than those already disclosed during the financial year.
(5)  The  declaration  required  under  sub-regulation  (4)  shall  be  made  within  seven working days from the end of each financial year to – (a) every stock exchange where the shares of the target company are listed; and (b) the audit committee of the target company.] 81[CHAPTER V-A POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 31A (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any  of  the  provisions  of  these  regulations  for  a  period  as  may  be  specified  but  not exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation in technological aspects relating to  testing  new  products,  processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  in  live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)  Any  exemption  granted  by  the  Board  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  subject  to  the applicant  satisfying  such  conditions  as  may  be  specified  by  the  Board  including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. testing  environment  where  new  products,  processes,  services,  business  models,  etc. may be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board.] CHAPTER - VI MISCELLANEOUS Power to issue directions.
32.(1)    Without prejudice to its powers under Chapter VIA and section 24 of the Act, the Board may, in the interest of investors in securities and the securities market, issue such directions 82[or any other order] as it deems fit under section 11 or section 11B or section 11D of the Act, including,— (a)  directing  divestment  of  shares  acquired  in  violation  of  these  regulations, whether  through  public  auction  or  in  the  open  market,  or  through  an  offer  for sale  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009, and directing the appointment of a merchant banker for such divestiture; (b)  directing  transfer  of  the  shares,  or  any  proceeds  of  a  directed  sale  of  shares acquired  in  violation  of  these  regulations  to  the  Investor  Protection  and Education  Fund  established  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Investor Protection and Education Fund) Regulations, 2009; (c)  directing the target company or any depository not to give effect to any transfer of shares acquired in violation of these regulations; (d)  directing the acquirer or any person acting in concert, or any nominee or proxy not to exercise any voting or other rights attached to shares acquired in violation of these regulations; (e)  debarring  any  person  who  has  violated  these  regulations  from  accessing  the capital  market  or  dealing  in  securities  for  such  period  as  may  be  directed, having regard to the nature and gravity of  the violation; (f) directing  the  acquirer  to  make  an  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares  of  the  target company  at  such  offer  price  as  determined  by  the  Board  in  accordance  with these regulations; (g)  directing  the  acquirer  not  to  cause,  and  the  target  company  not  to  effect,  any disposal of assets of the target company or any of its subsidiaries contrary to the contents of the letter of offer, where the conditions set out in the proviso to sub- regulation (2) of regulation 25 are not met; (h)  directing the acquirer who has failed to make an open offer or has delayed the making of an open offer, to make the open offer and to pay interest at such rate as considered appropriate by the Board along with the offer price; (i) directing  the  acquirer  who  has  failed  to  make  payment  of  the  open  offer consideration  to  shareholders,  not  to  make  any  open  offer  or  enter  into  any transaction that would attract the obligation to make an open offer in respect of shares of any target company for such period as the Board may deem fit; (j) directing  the  acquirer  who  has  made  an  open  offer  but  has  delayed  making payment of the open offer consideration to shareholders, to pay interest at such rate as considered appropriate by the Board for the delayed period; (k)  directing  any  person  to  cease  and  desist  from  exercising  control  acquired  over any  target  company  without  complying  with  the  requirements  under  these regulations; (l)   directing  divestiture  of  such  number  of  shares  as  would  result  in  the shareholding  of  an  acquirer  and  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him  being limited to the maximum permissible non-public shareholding or below.
(2) In any proceedings initiated by the Board, the Board shall comply with principles of natural justice before issuing directions to any person.
(3)  The Board may, for failure to carry out the requirements of these regulations by any intermediary registered with the Board, initiate appropriate proceedings in accordance with applicable regulations. Power to remove difficulties.
33. In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  interpretation  or  application  of  the provisions  of  these  regulations,  the  Board 83[may  issue  clarifications  or  guidelines from time to time]:
84[. ] Amendment to other regulations.
34.  The  regulations  specified  in  the  Schedule  shall  be  amended  in  the  manner  and  to  the extent stated therein. Repeal and Savings.
35.(1)    The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)  Regulations,  1997, 85[stands]  repealed  from  the  date  on  which  these regulations come into force.
(2)  Notwithstanding such repeal,— (a) anything  done  or  any  action  taken  or  purported  to  have  been  done  or  taken including comments on any letter of offer, exemption granted by the Board, fees collected, any adjudication, enquiry or investigation commenced or show-cause notice  issued  under  the  repealed  regulations,  prior  to  such  repeal,  shall  be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of these regulations; (b) the  previous  operation  of  the  repealed  regulations  or  anything  duly  done  or suffered thereunder, any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under the repealed regulations, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against the repealed regulations, or any  investigation,  legal  proceeding  or  remedy  in  respect  of  any  such  right, privilege,  obligation,  liability,  penalty,  forfeiture  or  punishment  as  aforesaid, shall remain unaffected as if the repealed regulations has never been repealed; (c) any  open  offer  for  which  a  public  announcement  has  been  made  under  the repealed regulations shall be required to be continued and completed under the repealed regulations.
4.  For  the  purposes  of  these  regulations,  the  Board  shall,  after  attachment  of  the properties  of  the  defaulter  by  the  Recovery  Officer,  appoint  an  Administrator  in  the manner specified. Eligibility norms for appointment as an Administrator.
5.  (1)  The  Administrator  shall  be  a  person  registered  with  the  Insolvency  and Bankruptcy Board of India as an Insolvency Resolution Professional and empanelled by the Board from time to time.
(2) No person shall be appointed as an Administrator where such an appointment may be objected to on the grounds that give rise to justifiable doubts as to the independence or impartiality of such a person: Provided that any question involving issues of conflict of interest in the appointment of an Administrator shall be decided by the Recovery Officer.
(3)  The  Administrator  shall  provide  an  undertaking  to  the  Board  of  absence  of  any conflict of interest with the defaulter, its directors, promoters, key managerial personnel and its group entities.
(4)  The Administrator shall also forthwith disclose to the Board any conflict of interest which may come to his knowledge during his tenure:
(5) For the purposes of these regulations, the Administrator shall be deemed to  be a public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) and sections 22 and 23 of the Act shall accordingly apply to him. Terms of appointment.
6. The terms and conditions of appointment including remuneration shall be specified by the Board, on a case to case basis, after taking into consideration the quantum of work, the number of investors and the quantum of money involved. Part II - Functions of the Administrator
7. (1) An Administrator shall perform the following functions – (a)  As may be directed by the Recovery Officer, obtain from the defaulter or any other  person,  any  information  or  document  including  documents  relating  to ownership and possession of properties, details of amount raised from investors, claims of investors, amount claimed to have been refunded to investors; (b)  Make a record of the properties that have been attached by the Recovery Officer including  the  additional  properties  that  have  been  entrusted  by  the  Recovery Officer  from  time  to  time  and  those  properties  which  are  not  part  of  the attachment order; (c)  Make a record of the bank accounts and dematerialised accounts of the defaulter and value of the monies and securities held thereunder; (d) Arrange for a proclamation for the sale of the property and arrange affixation of the copy of such proclamation in accordance with the provisions of the Act; (e)  Open  an  interest  bearing  bank  account,  under  the  control  of  the  Recovery Officer, with a scheduled public sector bank for depositing the proceeds of the money recovered from the sale of the assets and for making repayment to the investors; (f)  Sell the attached properties in accordance with these regulations or as may be directed  by the Recovery Officer; (g) Call  for  claims,  in  the  manner  specified  in  these  regulations  or  as  may  be directed by the Recovery Officer, for the purposes of repayment to investors, pursuant to an order of the Board for refunds; (h) Verify  the  claims  of  investors  and  also  that  of  the  defaulter  in  respect  of repayment of monies, either partly paid or wholly paid, claimed to have been made to investors on the basis of documentary evidence: (i)  Carry out any other necessary incidental and supplementary act, with the prior approval  of  the  Recovery  Officer  that  may  be  required  for  the  purpose  of carrying out its obligations under these regulations.
(2) While discharging the functions under these regulations, the Administrator - (a)  may  engage  the  services  of  a  peer  reviewed  chartered  accountant  for verifying the claims of investors on the basis of documentary evidence and for submission of a certified report to the Administrator; (b) shall engage the services of a registered valuer to evaluate the properties of defaulter that are attached by the Recovery Officer and for submission of a certified  valuation  report  in  accordance  with  the  guidelines  issued  by  the Board; (c)  may  engage the services of  a registrar and share  transfer agent  registered with the Board or such other agency as may be approved by the Recovery Officer, for managing the entire repayment process. Provided that the fees paid for such services shall be fixed by the Administrator taking into account the relevant factors including – (a)  the number of investors and the claims that are made; (b) quantum of work involved; (c)  the number of assets to be evaluated; (d) the  geographical  location  of  the  property  and  its  proximity  with  the  valuer’s place of business; and  such  fees  shall  be  within  the  overall  remuneration  fixed  by  the  Board  for  the Administrator: Provided  further  that  the  intermediary  or  such  other  person  engaged  by  the Administrator,  shall  not  have  any  conflict  of  interest  which  would  impede  their independence or impartiality.
(3) The Administrator shall submit a monthly report or a report as and when called for by the Recovery Officer on the progress of work entrusted including the monies realised pursuant to the sale of the properties and the repayments made to the investors. Part III – Sale of properties
8.  (1)  The  Administrator  shall  undertake  the  process  of  sale  of  properties  after conducting an independent valuation of such properties by a registered valuer.
(2)  After  considering  the  valuation  report,  the  Recovery  Officer  may  decide  on  the reserve price below which the property may not be sold.
(3) The Administrator may undertake the sale of properties through e-auction process and  for  this  purpose  engage  an  e-auction  agency  and  shall  in  consultation  with  the Recovery Officer repeat the auction process till the time such properties are disposed off.
(4)  The process of disposing off the properties shall be under the supervision of the Recovery Officer.
(5) On completion of the sale and receipt of the sale consideration, the Recovery Officer shall issue an order confirming such sale in accordance with the Act.
(6)  The  amount  realized  in  respect  of  sale  of  properties  of  the  defaulter  shall  be deposited in a separate bank account with a scheduled public sector bank in terms of clause (e) of regulation 7 and such account shall be under the control of the Recovery Officer. Refund to investors. Part IV - Refund of monies
9. (1) For the purposes of inviting claims from the investors, the Administrator shall - (a)  issue  advertisements  in  an  English  and  a  Hindi  newspaper  having  nationwide circulation  and  if  so  directed  by  the  Recovery  Officer,  issue  such  advertisement  in vernacular  newspaper(s)  having  circulation  in  the  area(s)  where  the  investors  are concentrated; (b) direct the defaulter to issue advertisement in its website, if available.
(2) The advertisement referred to sub-regulation (1) may also be hosted on the website of the Board.
(3) The advertisements referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall contain instructions on the manner of making claims by investors and the documents and information that are to be submitted for verifying and processing their claim applications.
(4) The invitation of claims from the investors shall be through electronic mode or be received in the office of the Administrator; Provided that the investors’ claims received, if any, by the Board and forwarded to the Administrator  shall  also  be  included  in  the  relevant  records  maintained  by  the Administrator.
(5) The Administrator or the chartered accountant engaged by the Administrator, shall consider  the  total  eligible  claims  as  against  the  monies  available  for  distribution  to investors in order to determine whether the whole amount or a proportionate amount may be repaid to the investors as may be directed by the Recovery Officer.
(6)    Upon  ascertaining  the  eligibility,  the  Administrator  in  consultation  with  the Recovery  Officer,  shall  repay  the  money  to  the  eligible  investors  only  through  pay orders, demand drafts and electronic transfer through NEFT or RTGS.
(7)  The refund process shall be kept open for an appropriate period as may be decided in consultation with the Recovery Officer.
(8)  The monies remaining in the interest bearing escrow bank account after satisfying all the permissible claims of investors and other charges, shall be retained therein for a period of three years in order to meet the claims that may be received from any unpaid investor.
(9)  Upon  completion  of  the  period  specified  under  sub-regulation  (8),  the  unpaid monies  due  to  investors,  if  any,  shall  be  transferred  to  the  Investor  Protection  and Education Fund of the Board.
(10) In case any claim is received from an unpaid investor after the refund process has been closed, the same may be made from the Investor Protection and Education Fund after  necessary  verification  by  the  Administrator  in  consultation  with  the  Recovery Officer: Provided that the  claim shall be made within a period of three years from the date of transfer  of  monies  to  the  Investor  Protection  and  Education  Fund  in  terms  of  sub- regulation (9).
(11) The defaulter, and its officers who are in default as defined under section 2 of the Companies  Act,  2013,  as  applicable,  shall  furnish  an  undertaking  that  they  shall  be liable for payment if any complaint is received in future by the Board from any investor. Costs incurred in administration and repayment process.
10.(1)The  entire  costs  incurred  in  relation  to  the  sale  of  properties,  verification  of investors’ claims, remuneration of Administrator including the fees paid, if any, to the chartered accountant or valuer or such other person engaged by the Administrator and registrar and share transfer agent and all other expenses incurred in connection with the recovery and/or the repayment process shall be borne by the defaulter(s), failing which, the  monies  recovered  by  the  Board  shall  be  appropriated  in  priority  to  the  other liabilities.
(2)  The  cost  and  expenses  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  reasonable  and directly related to and necessary for the act and purposes referred to in these regulations.
(3) Where the Administrator is appointed on the request of a person against whom an order for disgorgement or refund had been issued by the Board, the remuneration of the Administrator and the other costs incurred in respect of recovery and/or refund to the investors shall be borne by such person. Priority in distribution of sale proceeds.
11.  The proceeds from the sale of properties of the defaulter shall be distributed in the following order of priority, namely, - i. the costs of administration incurred by the Board, if any, and the  fees and charges payable to the Administrator and other persons appointed by the administrator in performing its functions under these regulations; ii. disgorgement and/or monies payable to investors: Provided the Board may direct the Administrator to initiate the process of refund to the investors with the monies realized at the relevant time. For this purpose, the Administrator may call for claims in tranches iii. any other penalty or fees due from the defaulter to the Board under the provisions of the Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or the Depositories Act, 1996. Return of monies exceeding the liability.
12. In case the proceeds realised by way of sale of properties of the defaulter is in excess of the monies due from him under the certificate and the applicable interest and other charges, the excess money shall be paid to the defaulter after completion of three years from the date of completion of the refund process. Filing of the repayment report.
13. Upon completion of the repayments to all investors or recovery of the disgorgement amount from the defaulter, the Administrator shall file a detailed repayment/recovery report to the Recovery Officer or Board, as the case may be, within the period as may be specified. Part V – Disgorgement of amounts
14. The provisions of these regulations in relation to recovery of disgorgement amount ordered by the Board shall be applied in so far as it is applicable and the disgorgement amount so recovered shall be credited to the Investor Protection and Education Fund of the Board. Provided the disgorgement amount shall be paid to investors only in cases where the eligible  investors  are  identified  in  the  order  passed  by  the  Board  and  the  remaining amount,  if  any,  after  such  payment,  shall  be  credited  to  the  account  of  Investor Protection and Education Fund of the Board. Part VI - General obligations and responsibilities Obligations and Responsibilities
15. An Administrator - a)  shall  maintain  high  standards  of  integrity,  promptitude  and  fairness  in  the conduct of all his business. b)  shall act with due skill, care and diligence in the conduct of all his business. c)  shall  not  misrepresent  any  facts  or  situations  and  shall  refrain  from  being involved in any action that would bring disrepute to the profession. d)  shall  act  with  objectivity  during  the  course  of  his  professional  dealings  by ensuring  that  all  decisions  are  made  without  any  bias,  conflict  of  interest, coercion,  or  undue  influence  of  any  party,  whether  directly  or  indirectly connected to sale of properties, verification of claims and refund of monies. e)  shall not acquire, directly or indirectly, any of the assets of the defaulter. f)  shall  maintain  complete  independence  in  all  professional  relationships  and conduct the verification and refund process, as the case may be, independent of external influences. g)  shall  not  conceal  any  material  information  or  knowingly  make  a  misleading statement to the Recovery Officer or the Board. h)  shall not act with mala fide or be negligent while performing the functions and duties under the regulations. i)  shall provide all information and records as may be required by the Recovery Officer within the time specified by him. j)  shall  ensure  that  confidentiality  of  the  information  relating  to  the  sale  of properties, verification and refund process, is maintained at all times: Provided that the Administrator may disclose any information after obtaining written authorization of the Recovery Officer or the Board. k)  shall  disclose  all  costs  towards  the  verification  and  refund  process  and endeavour to ensure that such costs are not unreasonable. l)  shall comply with the terms and conditions of its appointment. CHAPTER III Action in case of default By an Administrator.
16. (1) The Recovery Officer may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, recommend for replacement of the Administrator, in case the Administrator has - a)  failed to comply with the terms and conditions of appointment; b)  engaged  valuers  or  chartered  accountants  or  such  other  persons  who  are ineligible to act so; c)  failed to comply with any of the obligations and responsibilities specified under these regulations; d)  acted against the instructions of the Recovery Officer or the Board; or e)  acted in such manner that is prejudicial to the interest of the investors.
(2) Without prejudice to the action under sub-regulation (1), the Recovery Officer may recommend for initiation of appropriate action under the Act.
(3) On receipt of such recommendation or suo  moto, the Board may take apprpriate action against the Administrator or such intermediary or such other person enagaged by the Administrator, under the Act including the following: (a) remove such Administrator from the Panel; (b) forward the matter to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India for appropriate action against the Administrator who is an Insolvency Resolution Professional; and (c) issue suitable  directions restraining such person from engaging in activities in the securities market in his professional capacity.
(4)  The  Board  shall  replace  an  Administrator  in  the  event  his  registration  with  the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India is cancelled or suspended. Chapter IV Miscellaneous Power of the Board to issue clarifications.
17. In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  application  or  interpretation  of these    regulations,  the  Board  may  issue  clarifications  and  guidelines,  as  deemed necessary. Forms.
3. Prohibition of certain dealings in securities No person shall directly or indirectly— (a)  buy, sell or otherwise deal in securities in a fraudulent manner; (b)  use  or  employ,  in  connection  with  issue,  purchase  or  sale  of  any  security  listed  or proposed  to  be  listed  in  a  recognized  stock  exchange,  any  manipulative  or  deceptive device or contrivance in contravention of the provisions of the Act or the rules or the regulations made there under; (c)  employ  any  device,  scheme  or  artifice  to  defraud  in  connection  with  dealing  in  or issue  of  securities  which  are  listed  or  proposed  to  be  listed  on  a  recognized  stock exchange; (d)  engage  in  any  act,  practice,  course  of  business  which  operates  or  would  operate  as fraud  or  deceit  upon  any  person  in  connection  with  any  dealing  in  or  issue  of securities which are listed or proposed to be listed on a recognized stock exchange in contravention of the provisions of the Act or the rules and the regulations made there under.
4. Prohibition of manipulative, fraudulent and unfair trade practices
(1)  Without  prejudice  to  the  provisions  of  regulation  3,  no  person  shall  indulge  in  a 3[manipulative,] fraudulent or an unfair trade practice in securities 4[markets]. misutilisation or siphoning off of assets or earnings of a company whose securities are listed or any concealment of such act or any device, scheme or artifice to manipulate the books of accounts or financial statement of such a company that would directly or indirectly manipulate the price of securities of that company shall be and shall always be  deemed  to  have  been  considered  as  manipulative,  fraudulent  and  an  unfair  trade practice in the securities market.]
(2)  Dealing in securities shall be deemed to be a  6[manipulative] fraudulent or an unfair trade practice if it involves 7[any of the following]:— (a)  8[knowingly] indulging in an act which creates false or misleading appearance of trading in the securities market; (b)  dealing  in  a  security  not  intended  to  effect  transfer  of  beneficial  ownership  but intended  to  operate  only  as  a  device  to  inflate,  depress  or  cause  fluctuations  in the price of such security for wrongful gain or avoidance of loss; 9[(c)  inducing  any  person  to  subscribe  to  an  issue  of  the    securities  for  fraudulently securing  the  minimum  subscription  to  such  issue  of  securities,  by  advancing  or agreeing to advance any money to any other person or through any other means;] 10[(d)    inducing  any  person  for  dealing  in  any  securities  for  artificially  inflating, depressing,  maintaining  or  causing  fluctuation  in  the  price  of  securities  through any means including by paying, offering or agreeing to pay or offer any money or money's worth, directly or indirectly, to any person;] (e)  any  act  or  omission  amounting  to  manipulation  of  the  price  of  a  security 11[including,  influencing  or  manipulating  the  reference  price  or  bench  mark  price  of any securities]; (f)  12[knowingly] publishing  or  causing  to  publish  or  reporting  or  causing  to  report by  a  person  dealing  in  securities  any  information  13[relating  to  securities, including  financial  results,  financial  statements,  mergers  and  acquisitions, regulatory  approvals,]  which  is  not  true  or  which  he  does  not  believe  to  be  true prior to or in the course of dealing in securities; (g)  entering  into  a  transaction  in  securities  without  intention  of  performing  it  or without intention of change of ownership of such security; 14[(h)  selling,  dealing  or  pledging  of  stolen,  counterfeit  or  fraudulently  issued securities whether in physical or dematerialized form: Provided that if:- (i) the  person  selling,  dealing  in  or  pledging  stolen,  counterfeit  or  fraudulently issued securities was a holder in due course; or (ii)  the stolen, counterfeit or fraudulently issued securities were previously traded on the market through a bonafide transaction, (iii)  such selling, dealing or pledging of stolen, counterfeit or fraudulently issued securities  shall  not  be  considered  as  a  manipulative,  fraudulent,  or  unfair trade practice;] 10  Substituted  vide  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade 15[(i)  ***] 16[(j)  ***] (k)  17["disseminating  information  or  advice  through  any  media,  whether  physical  or digital,  which  the  disseminator  knows  to  be  false  or  misleading  and  which  is designed or likely to influence the decision of investors dealing in securities;] 18[(l) ***]; (m)  19[a  market  participant  entering  into  transactions  on  behalf  of  client  without  the knowledge of or instructions from client or misutilizing or diverting the funds or securities of the client held in fiduciary capacity"]; (n)  circular  transactions  in  respect  of  a  security  entered  into  between  20[persons including  intermediaries  to  artificially]  provide  a  false  appearance  of  trading  in such  security  or  to  inflate,  depress  or  cause  fluctuations  in  the  price  of  such security; (o) 21[fraudulent inducement of any person by a market participant to deal in securities with the objective of enhancing his brokerage or commission or income;] (p)  an  intermediary  predating  or  otherwise  falsifying  records  22[including  contract instructions,  balance  of  securities  statement,  client  account notes,  client statements]; (q)  23[any  order  in  securities  placed  by  a  person,  while  directly  or  indirectly  in possession  of information  that is  not  publically  available, regarding a substantial impending transaction in that securities, its underlying securities or its derivative;] (r)   24[knowingly] planting   false   or   misleading   news   which   may   induce   sale or   purchase   of securities. 25[(s) 26{mis-selling of securities or services relating to securities market; securities or services relating to  securities market  by  any person, directly or indirectly, by─ (i)  knowingly making a false or misleading statement, or "encouraging  the  clients  by  an  intermediary  to  deal  in  securities  solely  with  the  object  of  enhancing  his brokerage or commission;" (ii) knowingly concealing or omitting material facts, or (iii)knowingly concealing the associated risk, or (iv) not  taking  reasonable  care  to  ensure  suitability  of  the  securities  or service to the buyer}]; 27[(t)  illegal  mobilization  of  funds  by  sponsoring  or  causing  to  be  sponsored  or carrying on or causing to be carried on any collective investment scheme by any person.] is  clarified  that  the  acts  or  omissions  listed  in  this  sub-regulation  are  not  exhaustive  and that  an  act  or  omission  is  prohibited  if  it  falls  within  the  purview  of  regulation  3, notwithstanding  that  it  is  not  included  in  this  sub-regulation  or  is  described  as  being committed only by a certain category of persons in this sub-regulation.] Section 12 of the Act and its employees and agents.] CHAPTER III INVESTIGATION Power of the Board to order investigation
5.  Where  the  Board,  the  Chairman,  the  member  or  the  Executive  Director  (hereinafter referred to as “appointing authority”) has reasonable ground to believe that— (a)  the  transactions  in  securities  are  being  dealt  with  in  a  manner  detrimental  to  the investors or the securities market in violation of these regulations; (b)  any intermediary or any person associated with the securities market has violated any of the provisions of the Act or the rules or the regulations, it may, at any time by order in writing, direct any 31[person] (hereinafter referred to as the “Investigating  Authority”)  specified  in  the  order  to  investigate  the  affairs  of  such intermediary or persons  associated  with  the  securities  market  or  any  other  person  and  to report thereon to the Board in the manner provided in section 11C of the Act. Powers of Investigating Authority
6.  Without  prejudice  to  the  powers  conferred  under  the  Act,  the  Investigating  Authority shall have the following powers for the conduct of investigation, namely :—
(1)  to call for information or records from any person specified in section 11(2)(i) of the Act;
(2)  to undertake inspection of  any book, or  register, or other document or record of  any listed  public  company  or  a  public  company  (not  being  intermediaries  referred  to  in section 12 of the Act) which intends to get its securities listed on any recognized stock exchange  where  the  Investigating  Authority  has  reasonable  grounds  to  believe  that such company has been conducting in violation of these regulations;
(3)  to  require  any  intermediary  or  any  person  associated  with  securities  market  in  any manner  to  furnish  such  information  to,  or  produce  such  books,  or  registers,  or  other documents, or record before him or any person authorized by him in this behalf as he may  consider  necessary  if  the  furnishing  of  such  information  or  the  production  of such books, or registers, or other documents, or record is relevant or necessary for the purposes of the investigation;
(4)  to  keep  in  his  custody  any  books,  registers,  other  documents  and  record  produced under this regulation for a maximum period of one month which may be extended upto a period of six months by the Board : Provided  that  the  Investigating  Authority  may  call  for  any  book,  register,  other document or record if the same is needed again : Provided  further  that  if  the  person  on  whose  behalf  the  books,  registers,  other documents  and  record  are  produced  requires  certified  copies  of  the  books,  registers, other documents and record produced before the Investigating Authority, he shall give certified copies of such books, registers, other documents and record to such person or on whose behalf the books, registers, other documents and record were produced;
(5)  to examine orally and to record the statement of the person concerned or any director, partner,  member  or  employee  of  such  person  and  to  take  notes  of  such  oral examination to be used as an evidence against such person : Provided that the said notes shall be read over to, or by, and signed by, the person so examined;
(6)  to examine on oath any manager, managing director, officer or other employee of any intermediary  or  any  person  associated  with  securities  market  in  any  manner  in relation to the affairs of his business and may administer an oath accordingly and for that purpose may require any of those persons to appear before him personally. Power of the Investigating Authority to be exercised with prior approval
7. The Investigating Authority may, after obtaining specific approval from the Chairman or Member also exercise all or any of the following powers, namely :— (a)  to  call  for  information  and  record  from  any  bank  or  any  other  authority  or  board  or corporation established or constituted by or under any Central, State or Provincial Act in respect of any transaction in securities which are under investigation; (b)  to make an application to the Judicial Magistrate of the first class having jurisdiction for an order for the seizure of any books, registers, other documents and record, if in the  course  of  investigation,  the  Investigating  Authority  has  reasonable  ground  to believe that such books,  registers, other documents  and record of, or  relating to,  any intermediary  or  any  person  associated  with  securities  market  in  any  manner  may  be destroyed, mutilated, altered, falsified or secreted; (c)  to keep in his custody  the books,  registers, other documents and record  seized under these regulations for such period not later than the conclusion of the investigation as he considers necessary and thereafter to return the same to the person, the company or the  other  body  corporate,  or,  as  the  case  may  be,  to  the  managing  director  or  the manager or any other person from whose custody or power they were seized : Provided that the Investigating Authority may, before returning such books, registers, other  documents  and  record  as  aforesaid,  place  identification  marks  on  them  or  any part thereof; (d)  save as otherwise provided in this regulation, every search or seizure made under this regulation  shall  be  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Code  of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) relating to searches or seizures made under that Code. 10 Duty to co-operate, etc.
8.  (1)  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  person  in  respect  of  whom  an  investigation  has  been ordered under regulation 7— (a)  to produce to the Investigating Authority or any person authorized by him such books, accounts and other documents and record in his custody or control and to furnish such statements and information as the Investigating Authority or the person so authorized by him may reasonably require for the purposes of the investigation; (b)  to appear before the Investigating Authority personally when required to do so by him under regulation 6 or regulation 7 to answer any question which is put to him by the Investigating Authority in pursuance of the powers under the said regulations.
(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of 32[the Companies Act, 2013 (No. 18 of 2013)], it shall be the duty of every  manager,  managing  director, officer  and other  employee  of  the company  and  every  intermediary  referred  to  in  section  12  of  the  Act  or  every  person associated  with  the  securities  market  to  preserve  and  to  produce  to  the  Investigating Authority  or  any  person  authorized  by  him  in  this  behalf,  all  the  books,  registers,  other documents  and  record  of,  or  relating  to,  the  company  or,  as  the  case  may  be,  of  or relating to, the intermediary or such person, which are in their custody or power.
(3)  Without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of  the  provisions  of  sub-regulations  (1)  and  (2), such person shall— (a)  allow  the  Investigating  Authority  to  have  access  to  the  premises  occupied  by  such person at all reasonable times for the purpose of investigation; (b)  extend  to  the  Investigating  Authority  reasonable  facilities  for  examining  any  books, accounts and other documents in his custody or control (whether kept manually or in computer   or   in   any   other   form)   reasonably   required   for   the   purposes   of   the investigation; (c) provide to such  Investigating Authority  any such books, accounts and records which, in the opinion of the Investigating Authority, are relevant to the investigation or, as the case may be, allow him to take out computer out-prints thereof. Submission of report to the Board
9.  The  Investigating  Authority  shall,  on  completion  of  investigation,  after  taking  into account all relevant facts, submit a report to the appointing authority : Provided that the Investigating Authority may submit an interim report pending completion of  investigations  if  he  considers  necessary  in  the  interest  of  investors  and  the  securities market or as directed by the appointing authority. Enforcement by the Board
10. The Board may, after consideration of the report referred to in regulation 9, if satisfied that  there  is  a  violation  of  these  regulations  and  after  giving  a  reasonable  opportunity  of hearing to the persons concerned, issue such directions or take such action as mentioned in regulation 11 and regulation 12: Provided that the Board may, in the interest of investors and the securities market, pending the  receipt  of  the  report  of  the  investigating  authority  referred  to  in  regulation  9,  issue directions under regulation 11: Provided  further  that  the  Board  may,  in  the  interest  of  investors  and  securities  market, dispense with the opportunity of pre-decisional hearing by recording reasons in writing and shall  give  an  opportunity  of  post-decisional  hearing  to  the  persons  concerned  as expeditiously as possible.
11. (1) The  Board may,  without prejudice to  the  provisions contained in  sub-sections (1),
(2), (2A) and (3) of section 11 and section 11B  of the Act, by an order, for reasons to be recorded in writing, in the interests of investors and securities market, issue or take any of the  following   actions   or  directions,  either  pending  investigation   or  enquiry   or  on completion of such investigation or enquiry, namely:— (a)  suspend the trading of the security found to be or prima facie found to be involved in fraudulent and unfair trade practice in a recognized stock exchange; (b)  restrain   persons   from   accessing   the   securities   market   and   prohibit   any   person associated with securities market to buy, sell or deal in securities; (c)  suspend any office-bearer of any stock exchange or self-regulatory organization from holding such position; (d)  impound and retain the proceeds or securities in respect of any transaction which is in violation or prima facie in violation of these regulations; (e)  direct  and  intermediary  or  any  person  associated  with  the  securities  market  in  any manner not  to  dispose of or alienate  an  asset forming part of  a fraudulent  and unfair transaction; (f)  require  the  person  concerned  to  call  upon  any  of  its  officers,  other  employees  or 12 representatives to refrain from dealing in securities in any particular manner; (g)  prohibit  the  person  concerned  from  disposing  of  any  of  the  securities  acquired  in contravention of these regulations; (h)  direct   the   person   concerned   to   dispose   of   any   such   securities   acquired   in contravention  of  these  regulations,  in  such  manner  as  the  Board  may  deem  fit,  for restoring the status quo ante;
(2)  The  Board  shall  issue  a  press  release  in  respect  of  any  final  order  passed  under  sub- regulation  (1)  in  at  least  two  newspapers  of  which  one  shall  have  nationwide  circulation and shall also put the order on the website of the Board. 33[Manner of service of summons and notices issued by the Board.
11A. A summons or notice issued by the Board  under these regulations may  be served in the  manner  provided  in  regulation  22  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty)  Regulations,
2002.] Suspension or cancellation of registration
12. (1) The  Board may,  without prejudice to  the  provisions contained in  sub-sections (1),
(2), (2A) and (3) of section 11 and section 11B  of the Act, by an order, for reasons to be recorded  in  writing,  in  the  interests  of  investors  and  securities  market  take  the  following action against an intermediary : (a)  issue a warning or censure (b)  suspend the registration of the intermediary; or (c)  cancel of the registration of the intermediary Provided that no final order of suspension or cancellation of an intermediary for violation of  these  regulations  shall  be  passed  unless the  procedure  specified  in  the  regulations applicable   to   such   intermediary   under   the   Securities   and   Exchange   Board   of   India (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty)  Regulations, 2002 is complied with. Repeal and savings
13. (1) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 1995 is hereby repealed.
(2)  Notwithstanding repeal  of the  Securities and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices  relating  to  Securities  Market)  Regulations,  1995, any violation of regulations 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 1995 shall be investigated and proceeded against in accordance with the procedure laid down in these regulations.
3. An application for the grant of a certificate of registration as a KRA shall be made to the Board in Form as specified in Schedule I and shall be accompanied by such fees and in such manner as specified in Schedule II of these regulations. Application to conform to the requirements
4. An application, which is not complete in all respects and does not conform to the instructions prescribed  in  the  Form  and  the  requirements  specified  therein  or  the  information,  is  false  or misleading in any manner shall be rejected by the Board. Provided that before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given, in writing, an opportunity  to  remove,  within  thirty  days  of  the  date  of  communication  in  this  regard,  such objections as may be indicated by the Board. Notwithstanding anything contained in the first proviso, the Board may, on being satisfied that it is necessary, extend the time period by such further time, as it deems fit, in order to enable the applicant to remove the objections indicated by the Board. Furnishing of information, clarification and personal representation
5. (1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish such further information or documents or clarifications  as  the  Board  considers  necessary  for  the  purpose  of  consideration  of  the application.
(2) The applicant or his authorized representative shall, if so required, appear before the Board for personal representation in connection with the grant of certificate of registration. Consideration of application for grant of certificate of 2[***] registration
6. (1) The Board shall not consider an application, unless the applicant is a fit and proper person to the satisfaction of the Board and belongs to one of the following categories, namely: (a) a wholly owned subsidiary of a recognized stock exchange, having nation-wide network of trading terminals, or; (b)  a  wholly  owned  subsidiary  of  a  depository  or  any  other  intermediary  registered  with  the Board or; (c) a wholly owned subsidiary of a Self Regulatory Organization (SRO) registered under SEBI (Self Regulatory Organization) Regulations, 2004, Provided that any conflict of interest does not exist between the role of the applicant as KRA and other commercial activities of the applicant, its associates and group companies. Provided further that  the  applicant  shall  have to  satisfy  to  the  Board  about  the  organizational capabilities, technology and systems and safeguards for maintaining data privacy and preventing unauthorized sharing of data. Notwithstanding the aforementioned, the Board shall have the power to examine any possible case of conflict of interest in applications.
(2) The applicant as mentioned in sub regulation (a) to (c) of regulation 6(1) above shall have a net worth of at least Rs 25 crore on a continuous basis. Grant of certificate of 3[***] registration
7. (1) The Board, on being satisfied that the applicant is eligible, shall send intimation to that effect to the applicant, for the grant of certificate o4f [***] registration, and grant a certificate in the Form as specified in Schedule I. 5[(1A) The KRA which has already been granted certificate of registration by the Board, prior to the  commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  in  Conditions  of Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 shall be deemed to have been granted a certificate of registration, in terms of sub-regulation (1).]
6[(2) The certificate of registration granted under sub-regulation  (1) shall be valid unless it is suspended or cancelled by the Board.]
(3) The grant of certificate of 7[***] registration shall be subject to the payment of such fees and in such manner as specified in Schedule II of these regulations.
8[(4) The KRA shall immediately intimate the Board, details of changes that have taken place in the information that was submitted, while seeking registration.]
8. 9[***] Criteria for fit and proper person
9. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant is a fit and proper person, the Board may take into account the criteria specified in Schedule II of Intermediaries Regulations. KRA to abide by code of conduct
10. The KRA holding a certificate of registration shall at all times abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in Schedule III of these regulations. Procedure where certificate of registration is not granted
11. (1) Where an application for the grant of certificate of  10[***] registration does not satisfy the requirements specified in regulation 6 & 9, the Board shall reject the application after giving the applicant an opportunity of being heard.
(2) The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the applicant in writing within thirty days of such decision, stating therein the grounds on which the application has been rejected.
(3) Any applicant, aggrieved by the decision of the Board, may apply within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of such intimation to the Board for reconsideration of its decision.
(4) The Board shall reconsider an application made under sub-regulation (3) and communicate its decision thereon, as soon as possible in writing to the applicant.
12. 11[***] Surrender of certificate of registration
13. (1) A KRA, who has been granted a certificate of registration under the Act or the regulations made there under, desirous of giving up its activity and surrender the certificate, may make a request for such surrender to the Board.
(2) While disposing a surrender request under these regulations, the Board may require the KRA to satisfy the Board about the factors, as it deems fit, including but not limited to the following – a. the arrangements made by KRA for maintenance and preservation of records and other documents required to be maintained under these regulations; b. redressal of investor grievances; c. transfer of records of its clients; d. the arrangements made by it for ensuring continuity of service to the clients; e. defaults or pending action, if any.
(3) While accepting the surrender, the Board may impose such conditions upon the KRA, as it deems fit, for protection of the interests of investors and the securities market, and such person shall comply with such conditions.
(4) On and from the date of the surrender or cancellation of the certificate, the KRA shall- (a) return the certificate of registration so cancelled to the Board and shall not represent itself to be  a  holder  of  the  certificate for  carrying  out  the activity  for  which  such  certificate  had  been granted; (b) cease to carry on any activity in respect of which the certificate had been granted; (c) transfer its activities to another entity holding a valid certificate of registration to carry on such activity and allow its clients to withdraw any assignment given to it, without any additional cost to such client; (d) make provisions as regards liability incurred or assumed by it; (e) take such other action including the action relating to any records or documents that may be in custody or control of such person, within the time period and in the manner, as may be required under the these regulations, or as may be directed by the Board. CHAPTER III FUNCTIONS AND OBLIGATIONS OF KRA AND INTERMEDIARY Documents to be obtained by the KRA for the purpose of KYC
14. The KRA shall obtain the KYC documents of the client from the intermediary; as prescribed by the Board and in terms of the rules, regulations, guidelines and circulars issued by the Board or any other authority for Prevention of Money Laundering, from time to time. Functions and obligations of the KRA
15. The KRA has the following functions and obligations – (a) KRA may prepare the Operating Instructions in co-ordination with other KRA(s) and issue the same to implement the requirements of these regulations. (b) KRA(s) shall have electronic connectivity and with other KRA(s) in order to establish inter- operability among KRAs. documents of the client are in the custody of another KRA. (c) KRA shall have a secure data transmission link with other KRA(s) and with each intermediary that uploads the KYC documents on its system and relies upon its data. (d) KRA shall be responsible for storing, safeguarding and retrieving the KYC documents and submit to the Board or any other statutory authority as and when required. (e) KRA shall retain the 12[] KYC documents of the client, in 13[] electronic form for the period specified by  Rules, as well as ensuring that retrieval  of  KYC information is facilitated within stipulated time period. (f) Any information updated about a client shall be disseminated by KRA to all intermediaries that avail of the services of the KRA in respect of that client. (g) KRA shall ensure that the integrity of the automatic data processing systems for electronic records is maintained at all times. (h) KRA shall take all precautions necessary to ensure that the KYC documents/records are not lost, destroyed or tampered with and that sufficient back up of electronic records is available at all times at a different place. (i)  KRA  shall  have  adequate  mechanisms  for  the  purposes  of  reviewing,  monitoring  and evaluating its controls, systems, procedures and safeguards. (j) KRA shall cause an audit of its controls, systems, procedures and safeguards to be carried out periodically and take corrective actions for deficiencies, if any and report to Board. (k) KRA shall take all reasonable measures to prevent unauthorized access to its database and have audit of its systems and procedures at regular intervals as prescribed by the Board. (l) KRA shall have checks built in its system so that an intermediary can access the information only for the clients who approach him. (m)KRA  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be  responsible  for  monitoring  the compliance of the Act, rules and regulations, notifications, guidelines, instructions, etc., issued by the Board or the Central Government and for redressal of client’s grievances. The compliance officer shall immediately and independently report to the Board any non-compliance observed by him. (n)  KRA  shall  send  a  letter  to  each  client  after  receipt  of  the  KYC  documents  from  the intermediary, confirming the client’s details thereof. (o) KRA shall take adequate steps for redressal of the grievances of the clients within one month of the date of receipt of the complaint and keep the Board informed about the number, nature and other particulars of the complaints from such investors.
03-2013. 13 ibid. Functions and obligations of an Intermediary
16. The Intermediary has the following functions and obligations – 14[(a) The intermediary shall perform the initial KYC/due diligence of the client, upload the KYC information with proper authentication on the system of the KRA, furnish the scanned images of the KYC documents to the KRA, and retain the physical KYC documents: Provided that in the case of clients of a mutual fund, the Registrar to an Issue and Share Transfer Agent  appointed  by the mutual fund may perform the initial KYC/due diligence of the client, upload the KYC information with proper authentication on the system of the KRA, and furnish the scanned images of KYC documents to the KRA.] 15[(aa) The intermediary or the mutual fund, as the case may be, shall furnish the physical KYC documents or authenticated copies thereof to the KRA, whenever so desired by the KRA.] 16[(b)  When  the  client  approaches  another  intermediary  subsequently,  the  intermediary  shall verify and download the client’s details from the system of KRA: Provided that upon receipt of information on change in KYC details and status of the  clients by the  intermediary  or  when  it  comes  to  the  knowledge  of  the  intermediary,  at    any  stage,  the intermediary shall be responsible for uploading the updated information on the system of KRA and retaining the physical documents. (c) An intermediary shall not use the KYC data of a client obtained from the KRA for purposes other than it is meant for; nor shall it make any commercial gain by sharing the same with any third party including its affiliates or associates. (d)  The  intermediary  shall  have  the  ultimate  responsibility  for  the  KYC  of  its  clients,  by undertaking enhanced KYC measures commensurate with the risk profile of its clients. 17[Sharing of KYC information in the financial sector. 22-03-2013 for the following: (a) The intermediary shall perform the initial KYC/due diligence of the client, shall upload the KYC information on the system of the KRA and send the original KYC documents to KRA forthwith from the date of account opening or within the time as prescribed by the board from time to time. However, in case of mutual funds, an RTA appointed by the mutual fund may also undertake the KYC of the client and send the original documents to the mutual fund or KRA. 22-03-2013 13-03-2014 for the following: (b) When the client approaches another intermediary subsequently, it will be optional for the intermediary to verify and download the client’s details from the system of KRA or to take fresh KYC as per existing system. However, upon receipt of information on change in KYC details and status of the clients by the intermediary or when it comes to the knowledge of the intermediary, at any stage, the intermediary shall be responsible for uploading the updated information on the system of KRA and 16[retaining the physical documents].
16A. (1) The entities, regulated by other regulators in the financial sector specified by the Board from  time  to  time,  may  access  the  system  of  KRA  for  undertaking  KYC  of their  clients  who engage them for financial services.
(2) The provisions of these regulations shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to the entities regulated by other regulators specified in sub-regulation (1).
(3)  The  system  of  KRA  may  be  connected  with  any  central  KYC  registry  authorised  by  the Central  Government  for  the  purpose  of  collation  and  sharing  of  the  KYC  information  in  the financial sector.] Power of the Board to issue clarifications
17. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, the  Board  shall  have  the  power  to  issue  clarifications  and  guidelines  in  the  form  of  notes  or circulars which shall be binding on the KRA and the intermediaries. Board's right to inspect CHAPTER IV INSPECTION of KRA
18.  (1)  The  Board  may  appoint  one  or  more  persons  as  inspecting  authority  to  undertake inspection of the books of accounts, records, documents, infrastructure, systems and procedures, of a KRA, for any purpose specified in sub-regulation (2).
(2) The Board may inspect a KRA for the following purposes: (a)  that  the  books  of  accounts, records  and  KYC documents,  as  prescribed  by  the  Board,  are being maintained by the KRA; (b) to look into the complaints received by the KRA from clients or any other person; (c) to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act and these regulations are being complied with; (d) to ascertain whether the systems, procedures and safeguards being followed by a KRA are adequate; (e) to ensure that privacy of clients’ data is maintained and the same is not shared with any other agency/associates in violation of these regulations; (f) to ensure that the affairs of a KRA are being conducted in a manner which are in the interest of the investors and securities market. Notice before inspection
19. (1) Before undertaking an inspection under regulation 19, the Board shall give not less than 10 days notice to the KRA, for that purpose.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied that in  the interest  of the investors no such notice should  be given, it may, by an order in writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the KRA be taken up without such notice.
(3) On being empowered by the Board, the inspecting authority shall undertake inspection and the  KRA  against  whom  an  inspection  is  being  carried  out  shall  be  bound  to  discharge  his obligations as provided under regulation 20. Obligations upon inspection by the Board
20. (1) It shall be the duty of the KRA whose affairs are being inspected, and of every director, officer  and  employee  thereof,  to  produce  to  the  inspecting  authority  such  books,  accounts, records and other documents in its custody or control and furnish him with such statements and information relating to its activities as a KRA, within such reasonable period as the inspecting authority may require.
(2)  The  KRA  shall  allow  the  inspecting  authority  to  have  reasonable  access  to  the  premises occupied  by  it  or  by  any  other  person  on  their  behalf  and  also  extend  reasonable  facility  for examining any books, records, documents and computer data in the possession of the KRA or any  other  person  on  their  behalf  and  also  provide  copies  of  the  documents  or  other materials which, in the opinion of the inspecting authority are relevant for the purposes of the inspection.
(3) The inspecting authority, in the course of inspection, shall be entitled to examine or to record the statements of any director, officer or employee of the KRA.
(4) It shall be the duty of every director, officer or employee of the KRA to give to the inspecting authority all  assistance in  connection with  the inspection, which the inspecting authority may reasonably require. Submission of Report to the Board
21. The inspecting authority shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection, submit a report to the Board: Provided that if directed to do so by the Board the inspecting authority shall submit interim reports. Communication of findings, etc.
22. (1) The Board shall, after consideration of the inspection report, communicate the findings of the inspecting authority to the KRA, seek its comments on the same and if required, give it an opportunity of being heard.
(2) On receipt of the reply, if any, from  the KRA, the Board may call upon him to  take such measures,  as  the  Board  may  deem  fit,  in  the  interest  of  the  securities  market  and  for  due compliance with the provisions of the Act, and these regulations. Action on inspection report
23.  The  Board  shall  after  consideration  of the  inspection  report  take  such  action  as  provided under Chapter V of the Intermediaries Regulations and in terms of the Act. Appointment of Auditor
24. (1) The Board shall have the power to appoint a qualified independent auditor to inspect, into the books of accounts, records, documents, infrastructures, systems and procedures of a KRA.
(2) The Board shall be entitled to recover from the KRA such expenses including fees paid to the  auditors,  as  may  be  incurred  by  it  for  the  purposes  of  inspecting  the  books  of  accounts, records, documents, infrastructures, systems and procedures of the KRA. CHAPTER V PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT Liability for action in case of default
25. A KRA shall be liable for action if it – (a) contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, and these regulations; (b)  fails  to  furnish  any  information  relating  to  its  activity  as  a  KRA  as  required  under  these regulations; (c) does not co-operate in any inspection or investigation or enquiry conducted by the Board; (d) fails to comply with any direction of the Board; (e) fails to pay the requisite fees to the Board; and shall be dealt with in the manner provided under the Chapter V of the Intermediaries Regulations. 18[CHAPTER VI POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
26. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new  products, processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  in  live  environment  of  regulatory  sandbox  in  the securities markets.
3. (1) No insider shall communicate, provide, or allow access to any unpublished price sensitive information, relating to a company or securities listed or proposed to be listed, to any person including other insiders except where such communication is in furtherance of legitimate purposes, performance of duties or discharge of legal obligations. This provision is intended to cast an obligation on all insiders who are essentially persons in possession of unpublished price sensitive information to handle such information with care  and  to  deal  with  the  information  with  them  when  transacting  their  business  strictly  on  a need-to-know basis.   It is also intended to lead to organisations developing practices based on need-to-know principles for treatment of information in their possession.
(2) No person shall procure from or cause the communication by any insider of unpublished price  sensitive  information,  relating  to  a  company  or  securities  listed  or  proposed  to  be  listed, except  in  furtherance  of  legitimate  purposes,  performance  of  duties  or  discharge  of  legal obligations. This  provision  is  intended  to  impose  a  prohibition  on  unlawfully  procuring possession  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information.    Inducement  and  procurement  of unpublished  price  sensitive  information  not  in  furtherance  of  one’s  legitimate  duties  and discharge of obligations would be illegal under this provision. 7[(2A)  The  board  of  directors  of  a  listed  company  shall  make  a  policy  for  determination  of “legitimate  purposes”  as  a  part  of  “Codes  of  Fair  Disclosure  and  Conduct”  formulated  under regulation 8. of unpublished price sensitive information in the ordinary course of business by an insider with partners, collaborators, lenders, customers, suppliers, merchant bankers, legal advisors, auditors, insolvency professionals or other advisors or consultants, provided that such sharing has not been carried out to evade or circumvent the prohibitions of these regulations.] 8[(2B)  Any person in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information pursuant to a “legitimate purpose” shall be considered an “insider” for purposes of these regulations and due notice shall be  given  to  such  persons  to  maintain  confidentiality  of  such  unpublished  price  sensitive information in compliance with these regulations.]
(3) Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  this  regulation,  an  unpublished  price  sensitive information may be communicated, provided, allowed access to or procured, in connection with a transaction that would:– (i) entail  an  obligation  to  make  an  open  offer  under  the  takeover  regulations  where the board of directors of the  9[listed]  company is  of informed opinion that  10[sharing of such information] is in the best interests of the company; It  is  intended  to  acknowledge  the  necessity  of  communicating,  providing, allowing  access  to  or  procuring  UPSI  for  substantial  transactions  such  as  takeovers, mergers and acquisitions involving trading in securities and change of control to assess a potential investment.  In an open offer under the takeover regulations, not only would the same price be made available to all shareholders of the company but also all information necessary  to  enable  an  informed  divestment  or  retention  decision  by  the  public shareholders  is  required  to  be  made  available  to  all  shareholders  in  the  letter  of  offer under those regulations. (ii) not attract the obligation to make an open offer under the takeover regulations but where  the  board  of  directors  of  the  11[listed]  company  is  of  informed  opinion  12[that sharing of such information] is in the best interests of the company and the information that  constitute  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  is  disseminated  to  be  made generally  available  at  least  two  trading  days  prior  to  the  proposed  transaction  being effected in such form as the board of directors may determine  13[to be adequate and fair to cover all relevant and material facts]. It  is  intended  to  permit  communicating,  providing,  allowing  access  to  or procuring UPSI also in transactions that do not entail an open offer obligation under the takeover  regulations  14[when  authorised  by  the  board  of  directors  if  sharing  of  such information]  is  in  the  best  interests  of  the  company.  The  board  of  directors,  however, would  cause  public  disclosures  of  such  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  well before the proposed transaction to rule out any information  asymmetry in the market.
(4) For  purposes  of  sub-regulation  (3),  the  board  of  directors  shall  require  the  parties  to execute agreements to contract confidentiality and non-disclosure obligations on the part of such parties and such parties shall keep information so received confidential, except for the purpose of sub-regulation (3), and shall not otherwise trade in securities of the company when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information.
15[(5)  The  board  of  directors  or  head(s)  of  the  organisation  of  every  person  required  to  handle unpublished  price  sensitive  information  shall  ensure  that  a  structured  digital  database  is shared  under  this  regulation  along with the Permanent Account Number or any other identifier authorized by law where Permanent Account maintained  containing  the  nature  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  and  the  names  of such persons who have  shared the information  and also  the names of such persons with  whom information  is  shared  under  this  regulation  along  with  the  Permanent  Account  Number  or  any other  identifier  authorized  by  law  where  Permanent  Account  Number  is  not  available.  Such database  shall  not  be  outsourced  and  shall  be  maintained  internally  with  adequate  internal controls  and  checks  such  as  time  stamping  and  audit  trails  to  ensure  non-tampering  of  the database.]
16[(6)  The  board  of  directors  or  head(s)  of  the  organisation  of  every  person  required  to  handle unpublished  price  sensitive  information  shall  ensure  that  the  structured  digital  database  is preserved for a period of  not  less than eight  years after completion of the relevant  transactions and  in  the  event  of  receipt  of  any  information  from  the  Board  regarding  any  investigation  or enforcement  proceedings,  the  relevant  information  in  the  structured  digital  database  shall  be preserved till the completion of such proceedings.] Trading when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information.
4. (1) No  insider  shall  trade  in  securities  that  are  listed  or  proposed  to  be  listed  on  a stock exchange when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information: unpublished  price  sensitive  information,  his  trades  would  be  presumed  to  have  been  motivated by the knowledge and awareness of such information in his possession.] Provided  that  the  insider  may  prove  his  innocence  by  demonstrating  the  circumstances including the following: – Number  is  not  available.  Such  databases  shall  be  maintained  with  adequate  internal  controls  and  checks such as time stamping and audit trails to ensure non-tampering of the database.” (i)  the  transaction  is  an  off-market  inter-se  transfer  between  18[insiders]  who  were  in possession  of the same  unpublished price sensitive information  without being  in  breach of regulation 3 and both parties had made a conscious and informed trade decision. 19[Provided  that  such  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  was  not  obtained  under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 3 of these regulations. Provided  further  that  such  off-market  trades  shall  be  reported  by  the  insiders  to  the company  within  two  working  days.  Every  company  shall  notify  the  particulars  of  such trades  to  the  stock  exchange  on  which  the  securities  are  listed  within  two  trading  days from receipt of the disclosure or from becoming aware of such information.]; 20[(ii) the transaction was carried out through the block deal window mechanism between persons  who  were  in  possession  of  the  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  without being in breach of regulation 3 and both parties had made a conscious and informed trade decision; Provided  that  such  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  was  not  obtained  by  either person under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 3 of these regulations. (iii)  the  transaction  in  question  was  carried  out  pursuant  to  a  statutory  or  regulatory obligation to carry out a bona fide transaction. (iv) the transaction in question was undertaken pursuant to the exercise of stock options in respect of which the exercise price was pre-determined in compliance with applicable regulations.] (v) in the case of non-individual insiders: – (a) the individuals who were in possession of such unpublished price sensitive information were different from the individuals taking trading decisions and such decision-making  individuals  were  not  in  possession  of  such  unpublished  price sensitive information when they took the decision to trade; and (b) appropriate and adequate arrangements were in place to ensure that these regulations  are  not  violated  and  no  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  was communicated  by  the  individuals  possessing  the  information  to  the  individuals taking  trading  decisions  and  there  is  no  evidence  of  such  arrangements  having been breached; (vi) the trades were pursuant to a trading plan set up in accordance with regulation 5. unpublished  price  sensitive  information,  his  trades  would  be  presumed  to  have  been motivated  by  the  knowledge  and  awareness  of  such  information  in  his  possession.  The reasons  for  which  he  trades  or  the  purposes  to  which  he  applies  the  proceeds  of  the transactions  are  not  intended  to  be  relevant  for  determining  whether  a  person  has violated  the  regulation.  He  traded  when  in  possession  of  unpublished  price  sensitive information is what would need to be demonstrated at the outset to bring a charge. Once this  is  established,  it  would  be  open  to  the  insider  to  prove  his  innocence  by demonstrating the circumstances mentioned in the proviso, failing which he would have violated the prohibition.
(2) In the case of connected persons the onus of establishing, that they were not in possession of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information,  shall  be  on  such  connected  persons  and  in  other cases, the onus would be on the Board.
(3) The  Board  may  specify  such  standards  and  requirements,  from  time  to  time,  as  it  may deem necessary for the purpose of these regulations. Trading Plans.
5. (1) An  insider  shall  be  entitled  to  formulate  a  trading  plan  and  present  it  to  the compliance  officer  for  approval  and  public  disclosure  pursuant  to  which  trades  may  be  carried out on his behalf in accordance with such plan. This  provision  intends  to  give  an  option  to  persons  who  may  be  perpetually  in possession of unpublished price sensitive information and enabling them to trade in securities in a  compliant  manner.    This  provision  would  enable  the  formulation  of  a  trading  plan  by  an insider to enable him to plan for trades to be executed in future.  By doing so, the possession of unpublished price sensitive information when a trade under a  trading plan is actually executed would  not  prohibit  the  execution  of  such  trades  that  he  had  pre-decided  even  before  the unpublished price sensitive information came into being.
(2) Such trading plan shall:– (i) not  entail  commencement  of  trading  on  behalf  of  the  insider  earlier  than  six months from the public disclosure of the plan; It is intended that to get the benefit of a trading plan, a cool-off period of six  months  is  necessary.  Such  a  period  is  considered  reasonably  long  for  unpublished price  sensitive  information  that  is  in  possession  of  the  insider  when  formulating  the trading  plan,  to  become  generally  available.    It  is  also  considered  to  be  a  reasonable period for a time lag in which new unpublished price sensitive information may come into being  without  adversely  affecting  the  trading  plan  formulated  earlier.  In  any  case,  it should  be  remembered  that  this  is  only  a  statutory  cool-off  period  and would  not  grant immunity  from  action  if  the  insider  were  to  be  in  possession  of  the  same  unpublished price sensitive information both at the time of formulation of the plan and implementation of the same. (ii) not entail trading for the period between the twentieth trading day prior to the last day of any financial period for which results are required to be announced by the issuer of the securities and the second trading day after the disclosure of such financial results; Since the trading plan is envisaged to be an exception to the general rule prohibiting  trading  by  insiders  when  in  possession  of  unpublished  price  sensitive information, it is important that the trading plan does not entail trading for a reasonable period  around  the  declaration  of  financial  results  as  that  would  generate  unpublished price sensitive information. (iii) entail trading for a period of not less than twelve months; It is intended that it would be undesirable to have frequent announcements of  trading  plans  for  short  periods  of  time  rendering  meaningless  the  defence  of  a reasonable time gap between the decision to trade and the actual trade.  Hence it is felt that a reasonable time would be twelve months. (iv) not  entail  overlap  of  any  period  for  which  another  trading  plan  is  already  in existence; It is intended that it would be undesirable to  have multiple trading plans operating during the same time period.  Since it would be possible for an insider to time the  publication  of  the  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  to  make  it  generally available  instead  of  timing  the  trades,  it  is  important  not  to  have  the  ability  to  initiate more than one plan covering the same time period. (v) set out either the value of trades to be effected or the number of securities to be traded  along  with  the  nature  of  the  trade  and  the  intervals  at,  or  dates  on  which  such trades shall be effected; and It  is  intended  that  while  regulations  should  not  be  too  prescriptive  and rigid  about  what  a  trading  plan  should  entail,  they  should  stipulate  certain  basic parameters  that  a  trading  plan  should  conform  to  and  within  which,  the  plan  may  be formulated with full flexibility.  The nature of the trades entailed in the trading plan i.e. acquisition  or  disposal  should  be  set  out.  The  trading  plan  may  set  out  the  value  of securities or the number of securities to be invested or divested.  Specific dates or specific time intervals may be set out in the plan. (vi) not entail trading in securities for market abuse. from bringing proceedings  for  market abuse. For instance, in  the event of manipulative timing  of  the  release  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  to  ensure  that  trading under a trading plan becomes lucrative in circumvention of regulation 4 being detected, it  would  be  open  to  initiate  proceedings  for  alleged  breach  of  SEBI  (Prohibition  of Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices  Relating  to  the  Securities  Market)  Regulations,
2003. (3) The  compliance  officer  shall  review  the  trading  plan  to  assess  whether  the  plan  would have  any  potential  for  violation  of  these  regulations  and  shall  be  entitled  to  seek  such  express undertakings  as  may  be  necessary  to  enable  such  assessment  and  to  approve  and  monitor  the implementation of the plan. 21[Provided  that  pre-clearance  of  trades  shall  not  be  required  for  a  trade  executed  as  per  an approved trading plan. Provided  further  that  trading  window  norms  and  restrictions  on  contra  trade  shall  not  be applicable for trades carried out in accordance with an approved trading plan.] It  is  intended  that  the  compliance  officer  would  have  to  review  and  approve  the plan.    For  doing  so,  he  may  need  the  insider  to  declare  that  he  is  not  in  possession  of unpublished  price  sensitive  information  or  that  he  would  ensure  that  any  unpublished  price sensitive  information  in  his  possession  becomes  generally  available  before  he  commences executing his trades.  Once satisfied, he may approve the trading plan, which would then have to be implemented in accordance with these regulations.
(4) The  trading  plan  once  approved  shall  be  irrevocable  and  the  insider  shall  mandatorily have  to  implement  the  plan,  without  being  entitled  to  either  deviate  from  it  or  to  execute  any trade in the securities outside the scope of the trading plan. Provided that the implementation of the trading plan shall not be commenced if any unpublished price sensitive information in possession of the insider at the time of formulation of the plan has not become generally available at the time of the commencement of implementation and in such event  the  compliance  officer  shall  confirm  that  the  commencement  ought  to  be  deferred  until such  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  becomes  generally  available  information  so  as  to avoid a violation of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4. It is intended that since the trading plan is an exception to the general rule that an insider should not trade when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information, changing the  plan  or  trading  outside  the  same  would  negate  the  intent  behind  the  exception.    Other investors  in  the  market,  too,  would  factor  the  impact  of  the  trading  plan  on  their  own  trading decisions  and  in  price  discovery.    Therefore,  it  is  not  fair  or  desirable  to permit  the  insider  to deviate from the trading plan based on which others in the market have assessed their views on the securities. The  proviso  is  intended  to  address  the  prospect  that  despite  the  six-month  gap  between  the formulation  of  the  trading  plan  and  its  commencement,  the  unpublished  price  sensitive information  in  possession  of  the  insider  is  still  not  generally  available.    In  such  a  situation, commencement of the plan would conflict with the over-riding principle that trades should not be executed  when  in  possession  of  such  information.  If  the  very  same  unpublished  price  sensitive information  is  still  in  the  insider’s  possession,  the  commencement  of  execution  of  the  trading plan ought to be deferred.
(5) Upon  approval  of  the  trading  plan,  the  compliance  officer  shall  notify  the  plan  to  the stock exchanges on which the securities are listed. It  is  intended  that  given  the  material  exception  to  the  prohibitory  rule  in regulation 4, a trading plan is required to be publicly disseminated.  Investors in the market at large would also factor the potential pointers in the trading plan in their own assessment of the securities and price discovery for them on the premise of how the insiders perceive the prospects or approach the securities in their trading plan. CHAPTER – III DISCLOSURES OF TRADING BY INSIDERS General provisions.
6. (1) Every public disclosure under this Chapter shall be made in such form as may be specified.
(2) The disclosures to be made by any person under this Chapter shall include those relating to trading by such person’s immediate relatives, and by any other person for whom such person takes trading decisions. It is intended that disclosure of trades would need to be of not only those executed by the person concerned but also by the immediate relatives and of other persons for whom the person concerned takes trading decisions.  These regulations are primarily aimed at preventing abuse  by  trading  when  in  possession  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  and  therefore, what  matters  is  whether  the  person  who  takes  trading  decisions  is  in  possession  of  such information rather than whether the person who has title to the trades is in such possession.
(3) The  disclosures  of  trading  in  securities  shall  also  include  trading  in  derivatives  of securities and the traded value of the derivatives shall be taken into account for purposes of this Chapter: Provided  that  trading  in  derivatives  of  securities  is  permitted  by  any  law  for  the  time being in force.
(4) The  disclosures  made  under  this  Chapter  shall  be  maintained  by  the  company,  for  a minimum period of five years, in such form as may be specified. Disclosures by certain persons.
7. (1)  Initial Disclosures. (a).  Every promoter  22[, member of the promoter group] , key managerial personnel and director  of  every  company  whose  securities  are  listed  on  any  recognised  stock exchange  shall  disclose  his  holding  of  securities  of  the  company  as  on  the  date  of these regulations taking effect, to the company within thirty days of these regulations taking effect; (b).  Every  person  on  appointment  as  a  key  managerial  personnel  or  a  director  of  the company  or  upon  becoming  a  23[promoter  or  member  of  the  promoter  group]  shall disclose  his  holding  of  securities  of  the  company  as  on  the  date  of  appointment  or becoming  a  promoter,  to  the  company  within  seven  days  of  such  appointment  or becoming a promoter.
(2) Continual Disclosures. (a).  Every  promoter  24[,  member  of  the  promoter  group],  25[designated  person]  and director  of  every  company  shall  disclose  to  the  company  the  number  of  such securities acquired or disposed of within two trading days of such transaction if the value  of  the  securities  traded,  whether  in  one  transaction  or  a  series  of  transactions over any calendar quarter, aggregates to a traded value in excess of ten lakh rupees or such other value as may be specified; (b).  Every company shall notify the particulars of such trading to the stock exchange on which the securities are listed within two trading days of receipt of the disclosure or from becoming aware of such information. incremental transactions after any disclosure under this sub-regulation, shall be made when the transactions effected after the prior disclosure cross the threshold specified in clause (a) of sub-regulation (2). 26[(c)      The  above  disclosures  shall  be  made  in  such  form  and  such  manner  as  may  be specified by the Board from time to time.] Disclosures by other connected persons.
(3) Any  company  whose  securities  are  listed  on  a  stock  exchange  may,  at  its  discretion require any other connected person or class of connected persons to make disclosures of holdings and  trading  in  securities  of  the  company  in  such  form  and  at  such  frequency  as  may  be determined by the company in order to monitor compliance with these regulations. whom it has to provide unpublished price sensitive information. This provision confers discretion on  any  company  to  seek  such  information.  For  example,  a  listed  company  may  ask  that  a management  consultant  who  would  advise  it  on  corporate  strategy  and  would  need  to  review unpublished price sensitive information, should make disclosures of his trades to the company. 27[CHAPTER – IIIA Definitions.
7A. (1) In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:- (a)  ‘Investor Protection and Education Fund’ means the Investor Protection and Education Fund created by the Board under section 11 of the Act; (b) ‘Informant’ means  an individual(s), who voluntarily  submits  to  the  Board  a Voluntary Information Disclosure Form relating to an alleged violation of insider trading laws that has occurred, is occurring or has a reasonable belief that it is about to occur, in a manner provided under these regulations, regardless  of whether  such individual(s) satisfies the requirements, procedures and conditions to qualify for a reward; (c)  ‘Informant  Incentive  Committee’  means  the  High  Powered  Advisory  Committee constituted by the Board in the manner as may be  specified under regulation 11 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018. (d) ‘insider trading laws’ means the following provisions of securities laws,- i. Section 15G of the Act; ii. iii. iv. v. regulation 3 of these regulations; regulation 4 of these regulations; regulation 5 of these regulations; and regulation  9  or  regulation  9A  of  these  regulations,  in  so  far  as  they  pertain  to trading or communication of unpublished price sensitive information. (e)  ‘irrelevant,  vexatious  and  frivolous  information’  includes,  reporting  of  information which in the opinion of the Board, - (i)  Does not constitute a violation of insider trading laws; or (ii) Is rendered solely for the purposes of malicious prosecution; or (iii)  Is rendered intentionally in an effort to waste the time and resource of the Board. (f)  ‘Legal  Representative’  means  a  duly  authorised  individual  who  is  admitted  to  the practice of law in India; (g) ‘Monetary Sanctions’ shall mean any non-monetary settlement terms or any direction of the  Board,  in  the  nature  of  disgorgement  under  securities  laws  aggregating  to  at  least Rupees  one  crore  arising  from  the  same  operative  facts  contained  in  the  original information. (h) ‘Original  Information’  means  any  relevant  information  submitted  in  accordance  with these regulations pertaining to any violation of insider trading laws that is:- (i) derived from the independent knowledge and analysis of the Informant; (ii)  not known to the Board from any other source, except where the Informant is the original source of the information; (iii) is sufficiently specific, credible and timely to  - (1) commence an examination or inquiry  or  audit,  (2)  assist  in  an  ongoing  examination  or  investigation  or  inquiry  or audit,  (3)  open  or  re-open  an  investigation  or  inquiry,  or  (4)  inquire  into  a  different conduct as part of an ongoing examination or investigation or inquiry or audit directed by the Board receipt of the duly completed Voluntary Information Disclosure Form by the Board, a period  of  not  more  than  three  years  has  elapsed  since  the  date  on  which  the  first alleged trade constituting violation of insider trading laws was executed]; (iv)  not  exclusively  derived  from  an  allegation  made  in  a  judicial  or  administrative hearing,  in  a  Governmental  report,  hearing,  audit,  or  investigation,  or  from  the  news media, except where the Informant is the original source of the information; and (v) not irrelevant or frivolous or vexatious. information already possessed by the Board is not original information. (i) ‘own analysis’ means the examination and evaluation of the relevant information  by the Informant that may be publicly available, but which reveals  analysis that is not known to SEBI: Provided that  such  analysis is  not  derived  from  professional  or  confidential communication protected under the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872); (j) ‘own  knowledge’  means  relevant  information  in  the  possession  of  the  Informant  not derived from publicly available sources: Provided  that  such  knowledge  is  not  derived  from  professional  or  confidential communications protected under the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872); (k) ‘Reward’  means  any  gratuitous  monetary  amount  for  which  an  Informant  is  declared eligible as per the provisions of these regulations; (l) ‘securities  laws’  means  the  Act,  the  Securities  Contract  (Regulations)  Act,  1956  (42  of 1956), the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996), the relevant provisions of any other law to the extent it is administered by the Board and the relevant rules and regulations made thereunder; (m) ‘voluntarily providing information’ means providing the Board with information before receiving  any  request,  inquiry,  or  demand  from  the  Board,  any  other  Central  or  State authorities  or  other  statutory  authority  about  a  matter,  to  which  the  information  is relevant;
(2)  Words  and  expressions  used  but  not  defined  in  these  regulations  but  defined  in  securities laws, shall have the same meanings respectively assigned to them in those laws or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto. Submission of Original Information to the Board
7B. (1) An Informant shall submit Original Information by furnishing the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form to the Office of Informant Protection of the Board in the format and manner set out  in  Schedule  D.  The  Voluntary  Information  Disclosure  Form  may  be  submitted  through informant’s legal representative: Provided that where the Informant does not submit the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form through  a  legal  representative,  the  Board  may  require  such  Informant  to  appear  in  person  to ascertain his/her identity and the veracity of the information so provided. received  in  a  manner  not  in  accordance  with  the  manner  provided  under  these  regulations,  the Board  may  require  such  information  to  be  filed  with  it  in  accordance  with  these  regulations  or reject the same.
(2) The legal representative shall,- i. Verify the identity and contact details of the Informant; ii. Unless  otherwise  required  by  the  Board,  maintain  confidentiality  of  the  identity  and existence  of  the  Informant,  including  the  original  Voluntary  Information  Disclosure Form; iii.  Undertake and certify that he/she,- (a)  Has reviewed the completed and signed Voluntary Information Disclosure Form for completeness and accuracy and that the information contained therein is true, correct and complete to the best of his/her knowledge; (b)  Has obtained a irrevocable consent from the Informant to provide to the Board with original  Voluntary  Information  Disclosure  Form  whenever  required  by  the  Board; and (c)  Agrees  to  be  legally  obligated  to  provide  the  original  Voluntary  Information Disclosure Form within seven (7) calendar days of receiving such requests from the Board. iv. Submits  to  the  Board,  the  copy  of  the  Voluntary  Information  Disclosure  Form  in  the manner provided in Schedule D of these regulations along with a signed certificate as required under clause (iii) of this sub-regulation (2).
(3)  An  Informant  shall  while  submitting  the  Voluntary  Information  Disclosure  Form  shall expunge  such  information  from  the  content  of  the  information  which  could  reasonably  be expected  to  reveal  his  or  her  identity  and  in  case  where  such  information  cannot  be  expunged, the Informant may identify such part of information or any document that the Informant believes could reasonably be expected to reveal his or her identity. Receipt of Original Information by the Board
7C. (1) The Board may designate a division to function as the independent Office of Informant Protection.
(2) The Office of Informant Protection shall perform such functions as may be specified by the Board, including,- i.  Receiving and registering the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form; ii.  Making all necessary communications with the Informant; iii.  Maintaining a hotline for the benefit of potential Informant; iv.  Maintaining  confidentiality  of  the  legal  representative  of  the  Informant  and  act  as  an interface between the Informant and the officers of the Board; v. Interacting with the Informant Incentive Committee; vi. vii. Issuing press releases and rewards relating to Informant; and Submitting  an  annual  report  to  the  Board  relating  to  the  functioning  of  the  Office  of Informant Protection.
(3) On receipt of the Voluntary Information Disclosure Form, the Office of Informant Protection shall  communicate  the  substance  of  the  information  along  with  the  evidence  submitted  by  the informant to  the relevant department  or division  of the  Board  for  examination and initiation of necessary action, if any.
(4) The Board shall not be required to send any intimation or acknowledgement to the Informant or  any  other  person,  of  the  examination  or  action  initiated  by  the  Board,  if  any,  pursuant  to receipt  of  the  Voluntary  Information  Disclosure  Form  or  information  under  these  regulations, including rejection thereof. Informant Reward.
7D. (1) Upon collection or substantial recovery of the monetary sanctions amounting to at least twice the Reward, the Board may at its sole discretion, declare an Informant eligible for Reward and intimate the Informant or his or her legal representative to file an application in the format provided in Schedule-E for claiming such Reward: Provided that the amount of Reward shall be ten percent of the monetary sanctions collected or recovered  and  shall  not  exceed  Rupees  One  crore  or  such  higher  amount  as  the  Board  may specify from time to time: Provided  further  that  the  Board  may  if  deemed  fit,  out  of  the  total  Reward  payable,  grant  an interim reward not exceeding Rupees Ten lacs or such higher amount as the Board may specify from  time  to  time,  on  the  issue  of  final  order  by  the  Board  against  the  person  directed  to disgorge.
(2) In case of more than one  Informant jointly providing the Original Information, the Reward, as specified in the intimation under sub-regulation (1), shall be divided equally amongst the total number of Informants.
(3) The Reward under these regulations shall be paid from the Investor Protection and Education Fund. Determination of amount of Reward.
7E. (1) The amount of the Reward, if payable, shall be determined by the Board.
(2)  While  determining  the  amount  of  Reward  under  sub-regulation  (1),  the  Board  may  specify the factors that may be taken into consideration by the Informant Incentive Committee.
(3)  An  Informant  may  be  eligible  for  a  Reward  whether  or  not  he  reported  the  matter  to  his organization  as  per  its  internal  legal  and  compliance  procedures  and  irrespective  of  such organization’s compliance officer subsequently providing the same Information to the Board. Application for Reward.
7F.  (1)  Informants  who  are  considered  tentatively  eligible  for  a  Reward,  shall  submit  the Informant Reward Claim Form set out in Schedule E to the Board within the period specified in the intimation sent by the Board.
(2)  Prior  to  the  payment  of  a  Reward,  an  Informant  shall  directly  or  through  his  or  her  legal representative, disclose his or her identity and provide such other information as the Board may require. Rejection of claim for Reward.
7G. No Reward shall be made to an Informant:-
(1) who does not submit original information;
(2) who has acquired the Original Information, through or as a member, officer, or an employee of:- (i) any regulatory agency constituted by or under any law in India or outside India, including the Board; (ii) any self-regulatory organization; (iii)      the surveillance or investigation wings of any recognised stock exchange or clearing corporation; or (iv) any law enforcement organization including the police or any central or state revenue authorities.
(3) against whom the Board may initiate or has initiated criminal proceedings under securities laws;
(4) who  wilfully  refused  to  cooperate  with  the  Board  during  its  course  of  investigation,  inquiry, audit, examination or other proceedings under securities laws;
(5) who: (i) knowingly makes any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or (ii) uses  any  false  writing  or  document  knowing  that  the  writing  or  document  contains  any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry; or (iii) fails  to  furnish  the  complete  information  available  with  him  or  accessible  by  him  in relation to the alleged violation.
(6) who is obligated, under any law or otherwise, to report such Original Information to the Board, including a compliance officer under securities laws. Provided  that  the  Board  may  if  deemed  fit,  at  its  sole  discretion,  exempt a  person  from  any  of these disqualifications. Informant confidentiality.
7H. (1) Any information including Original Information may, at the discretion of the Board, be made available: (a)  when  it  is  required  to  be  disclosed  in  connection  with  any  legal  proceedings  in furtherance of the Board’s legal position; (b) as permitted by these regulations; or (c)  as may be otherwise required or permitted by law.
(2) Original Information may, at the discretion of the Board, be made available to - (i) any regulatory agency constituted by or under any law in India or outside India; (ii) any self-regulatory organization; (iii) the surveillance or investigation wings of any recognised stock exchange or clearing corporation; or (iv) any law enforcement organization including the police or any central or state revenue authorities; or (v) a public prosecutor in connection with any criminal proceedings. Provided  that  sharing  of  information  shall  be  in  accordance  with  such  assurances  of confidentiality as the Board determines appropriate. ability  of  the  public  prosecutor  to  share  such  evidence  with  potential  witnesses  or  accused  in connection with any criminal proceedings.
(3) The Original Information and identity provided by an Informant shall be held in confidence and  exempted  from  disclosure  under  clauses  (g)  and  (h)  of  sub-section  (1)  of  section  8  of  the Right to Information Act, 2005 (No. 22 of 2005).
(4) Subject to the law of evidence for the time being in force, nothing in these regulations shall prejudice the right of the Board to use or to rely on information received otherwise.
(5) No person shall have the right to compel disclosure of the identity, existence of an Informant or the information provided by an Informant, except to the extent relied upon in any proceeding initiated against such person by the Board. shall be maintained throughout the process of investigation, inquiry and examination as well as during  any  proceedings  before  the  Board  and  save  where  the  evidence  of  the  Informant  is required  during  such  proceedings,  advance  notice  of  such  evidence  may  be  provided  to  the noticee at least seven (7) working days prior to the date of the scheduled hearing for evidence. request  maintenance  of  confidentiality  of  the  identity  and  existence  of  an  Informant  in  such proceeding. Protection against retaliation and victimisation
7I. (1) Every person required to have a Code of Conduct under these regulations shall ensure that such  a  Code  of  Conduct  provides  for  suitable  protection  against  any  discharge,  termination, demotion,  suspension,  threats,  harassment,  directly  or  indirectly  or  discrimination  against  any employee  who  files  a  Voluntary  Information  Disclosure  Form,  irrespective  of  whether  the information  is  considered  or  rejected  by  the  Board  or  he  or  she  is  eligible  for  a  Reward  under these regulations, by reason of: (i) (ii) filing a Voluntary Information Disclosure Form under these regulations; testifying  in,  participating  in,  or  otherwise  assisting  or  aiding  the  Board  in  any investigation, inquiry, audit, examination or proceeding instituted or about to be instituted for an alleged violation of insider trading laws or in any manner aiding the enforcement action taken by the Board; or (iii)  breaching  any  confidentiality  agreement  or  provisions  of  any  terms  and  conditions  of employment  or  engagement  solely  to  prevent  any  employee  from  cooperating  with  the Board in any manner. employment  may  become  privy  to  information  relating  to  violation  of  insider  trading  laws  and files a Voluntary Information Disclosure Form under these regulations and is a director, partner, regular or contractual employee, but does not include an advocate. (i) the Board has taken up any enforcement action in furtherance of information provided by such person; or (ii)  the  information  provided  fulfils  the  criteria  of  being  considered  as  an  Original Information under these regulations.
(2)  Nothing  in  these  regulations  shall  prohibit  any  Informant  who  believes  that  he  or  she  has been  subject  to  retaliation  or  victimisation  by  his  or  her  employer,  from  approaching  the competent court or tribunal for appropriate relief.
(3)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (2),  any  employer  who  violates  this Chapter  may  be  liable  for  penalty,  debarment,  suspension,  and/or  criminal  prosecution  by  the Board, as the case may be: Provided  that  nothing  in  these  regulations  will  require  the  Board  to  direct  re-instatement  or compensation by an employer.
(4) Nothing in these regulations shall diminish the rights and privileges of or remedies available to any Informant under any other law in force. Void Agreements
7J.  (1)  Any  term  in  an  agreement  (oral  or  written)  or  Code  of  Conduct,  is  void  in  so  far  as  it purports  to  preclude  any  person,  other  than  an  advocate,  from  submitting  to  the  Board information relating to the violation of the securities laws that has occurred, is occurring or has a reasonable belief that it would occur.
(2) No person shall by way of any threat or act impede an individual from communicating with the Board, including enforcing or threatening to enforce, a confidentiality agreement (other than agreements  related  to  legal  representations  of  a  client  and  communications  there  under)  with respect to such communications. Information  Disclosure  Form filed with  the  Board or to  seek its prior permission  or consent  or guidance of any person engaged by the employer before or after such filing. No Amnesty
7K. (1) Nothing in these regulations shall be deemed to provide any amnesty or immunity to an Informant for violation of securities law.
(2) Where an action against an Informant is deemed appropriate the Board may take into account the  co-operation  rendered  in  the  final  determination  of  any  penalty,  sanction,  direction  or settlement thereof, as the case may be.
(3)  Where  an  action  against  an  Informant  is  deemed  appropriate,  the  Board  while  determining the  value  of  monetary  sanctions  shall  not  take  into  account  the  monetary  sanctions  that  the Informant  is  ordered  to  pay  or  that  which  any  other  person  is  ordered  to  pay  if  the  liability  of such other person is based substantially on the conduct that the Informant directed, planned, or initiated.
(4)  An  Informant  who  may  be  liable  for  enforcement  action  by  the  Board  based  on  his  or  her conduct  in  connection  with  securities  laws  violations  reported  in  the  Voluntary  Information Disclosure  Form  filed  with  the  Board,  may  simultaneously  or  at  any  time  thereafter  file  an application  seeking  settlement  with  confidentiality  under  Chapter  IX  of  the  Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018.
(5)  Notwithstanding  any  action  taken  by  the  Board  against  an  Informant,  the  Informant  may, after payment of any monetary amounts be eligible for a Reward. Functions of Informant Incentive Committee
7L.  (1)  The  Informant  Incentive  Committee  shall  be  assisted  by  the  Office  of  Informant Protection.
(2)  The  Informant  Incentive  Committee  shall  give  its  recommendations  to  the  Board  on  the following matters,- i.  Eligibility of Informant for reward; ii.  Determination under regulations 7E and 7G; and iii.  Such other issues relating to Informant as the Board may require from time to time.
(3) The Informant Incentive Committee shall conduct its meetings in the manner specified by the Board in this regard. Public dissemination and incentivisation of Informant.
7M. (1) The Board shall upload on its website the following,- i.  Annual report of the Office of Informant Protection; ii.  Press release informing the public that an intimation to the Informant has been issued under Regulation 7D; iii.  Press  release  informing  the  public  that  a  Reward  has  been  paid  under  these regulations  and  the  amount  of  Monetary  Sanctions  recovered  pursuant  to  the information provided by the Informant; iv.  The Order issuing the Reward; that could identify the Informant or the information provided by the Informant.] CHAPTER – IV CODES OF FAIR DISCLOSURE AND CONDUCT Code of Fair Disclosure.
8. (1) The  board  of  directors  of  every  company,  whose  securities  are  listed  on  a  stock exchange, shall formulate and publish on its official website, a code of practices and procedures for  fair  disclosure  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  that  it  would  follow  in  order  to adhere to each of the principles set out in Schedule A to these regulations, without diluting the provisions of these regulations in any manner. This  provision  intends  to  require  every  company  whose  securities  are  listed  on stock  exchanges  to  formulate  a  stated  framework  and  policy  for  fair  disclosure  of  events  and occurrences that could impact price discovery in the market for its securities. Principles such as, equality  of  access  to  information,  publication  of  policies  such  as  those  on  dividend,  inorganic growth  pursuits,  calls  and  meetings  with  analysts,  publication  of  transcripts  of  such  calls  and meetings, and the like are set out in the schedule.
(2) Every  such  code  of  practices  and  procedures  for  fair  disclosure  of  unpublished  price sensitive  information  and  every  amendment  thereto  shall  be  promptly  intimated  to  the  stock exchanges where the securities are listed. This  provision  is  aimed  at  requiring  transparent  disclosure  of  the  policy formulated in sub-regulation (1). Code of Conduct.
9. (1) The  board  of  directors  of  every  listed  company  and  29[the  board  of  directors  or head(s) of the organisation of every intermediary shall ensure that the chief executive officer or managing director] shall formulate a code of conduct 30[with their approval] to regulate, monitor and  report  trading  by  its  31[designated  persons  and  immediate  relatives  of  designated  persons] towards achieving compliance with these regulations, adopting the minimum standards set out in Schedule B 32[(in case of a listed company) and Schedule C (in case of an intermediary)] to these regulations, without diluting the provisions of these regulations in any manner. would be required to formulate a code of conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading by their designated  persons,  by  adopting  the  minimum  standards  set  out  in  Schedule  B  with  respect  to trading in their own securities and in Schedule C with respect to trading in other securities.] It is intended that every company whose securities are listed on stock exchanges and every  34[intermediary] registered with SEBI is mandatorily required to formulate a code of conduct  governing  trading  by  35[designated  persons  and  their  immediate  relatives].    The standards set out in the 36[schedules] are required to be addressed by such code of conduct.
(2) 37[The  board  of  directors  or  head(s)  of  the  organisation,  of  every  other  person  who  is required to  handle unpublished price sensitive information  in  the  course  of business  operations shall  formulate  a  code  of  conduct  to  regulate,  monitor  and  report  trading  by  their  designated persons and immediate relative of designated persons towards achieving compliance with these regulations, adopting the minimum standards set out in Schedule C to these regulations, without diluting the provisions of these regulations in any manner. insolvency  professional  entities,  consultants,  banks  etc.,  assisting  or  advising  listed  companies shall be collectively referred to as fiduciaries for the purpose of these regulations.] intermediaries that are required to handle unpublished price sensitive information to formulate a code  of  conduct  governing  trading  in  securities  by  their  designated  persons.  These  entities include  professional  firms  such  as  auditors,  accountancy  firms,  law  firms,  analysts,  insolvency professional entities, consultants, banks etc., assisting or advising listed companies. Even entities that  normally  operate  outside  the  capital  market  may  handle  unpublished  price  sensitive information. This provision would mandate all of them to formulate a code of conduct.]
(3) Every listed company,  39[intermediary] and other persons formulating a code of conduct shall  identify  and  designate  a  compliance  officer  to  administer  the  code  of  conduct  and  other requirements under these regulations. responsibility to administer the code of conduct and monitor compliance with these regulations.
40[(4)  For  the  purpose  of  sub  regulation  (1)  and  (2),  the  board  of  directors  or  such  other analogous  authority  shall  in  consultation  with  the  compliance  officer  specify  the  designated persons  to  be  covered  by  the  code  of  conduct  on  the  basis  of  their  role  and  function  in  the organisation  and  the  access  that  such  role  and  function  would  provide  to  unpublished  price sensitive information in addition to seniority and professional designation and shall include:- (i) Employees of such listed company, intermediary or fiduciary designated on the basis of  their  functional  role  or  access  to  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  in  the organization by their board of directors or analogous body; (ii) Employees of material subsidiaries of such listed companies designated on the basis of  their  functional  role  or  access  to  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  in  the organization by their board of directors; (iii) All promoters of listed companies and promoters who are individuals or investment companies for intermediaries or fiduciaries; (iv)  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  employees  upto  two  levels  below  Chief  Executive Officer  of  such  listed  company,  intermediary,  fiduciary  and  its  material  subsidiaries irrespective  of  their  functional  role  in  the  company  or  ability  to  have  access  to unpublished price sensitive information; (v)  Any  support  staff  of  listed  company,  intermediary  or  fiduciary  such  as  IT  staff  or secretarial staff who have access to unpublished price sensitive information.] 41[Institutional Mechanism for Prevention of Insider trading.
9A.    (1)  The  Chief  Executive  Officer,  Managing  Director  or  such  other  analogous  person  of  a listed  company,  intermediary  or  fiduciary  shall  put  in  place  adequate  and  effective  system  of internal  controls  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  requirements  given  in  these  regulations  to prevent insider trading.
(2) The internal controls shall include the following: (a). all  employees  who  have  access  to  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  are identified as designated 42[person]; (b). all  the  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  shall  be  identified  and  its confidentiality shall be maintained as per the requirements of these regulations; (c). adequate  restrictions  shall  be  placed  on  communication  or  procurement  of unpublished price sensitive information as required by these regulations; (d). lists  of  all  employees  and  other  persons  with  whom  unpublished  price  sensitive information  is  shared  shall  be  maintained  and  confidentiality  agreements  shall  be signed or notice shall be served to all such employees and persons; (e). all  other  relevant  requirements  specified  under  these  regulations  shall  be  complied with; (f). periodic process review to evaluate effectiveness of such internal controls.
(3) The board of directors of every listed company and the board of directors or head(s) of the organisation of intermediaries and fiduciaries shall ensure that the Chief Executive Officer or the Managing  Director  or  such  other  analogous  person  ensures  compliance  with  regulation  9  and sub-regulations (1) and (2) of this regulation.
(4)  The  Audit  Committee  of  a  listed  company  or  other  analogous  body  for  intermediary  or fiduciary  shall  review  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  these  regulations  at  least  once  in  a financial year and shall verify that the systems for internal control are adequate and are operating effectively.
(5) Every listed company shall formulate written policies and procedures for inquiry in case  of leak of unpublished price sensitive information or suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive information,  which  shall  be  approved  by  board  of  directors  of  the  company  and  accordingly initiate  appropriate  inquiries  on  becoming  aware  of  leak  of  unpublished  price  sensitive information  or suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive information  and inform  the Board promptly of such leaks, inquiries and results of such inquiries.
(6) The listed company  shall have a whistle-blower policy  and make employees aware of such policy to enable employees to report instances of leak of unpublished price sensitive information.
(7)  If  an  inquiry  has  been  initiated  by  a  listed  company  in  case  of  leak  of  unpublished  price sensitive information  or  suspected leak of  unpublished price sensitive information, the relevant intermediaries and fiduciaries shall co-operate with the listed company in connection with such inquiry conducted by listed company.] CHAPTER – V MISCELLANEOUS Sanction for violations.
10. Any  contravention  of  these  regulations  shall  be  dealt  with  by  the  Board  in  accordance with the Act. Power to remove difficulties.
43[11.  (1)  In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  interpretation  or  application  of  the provisions  of  these  regulations,  the  Board  shall  have  the  power  to  issue  directions  through guidance notes or circulars: Provided  that  where  any  direction  is  issued  by  the  Board  in  a  specific  case  relating  to interpretation  or  application  of  any  provision  of  these  regulations,  it  shall  be  done  only  after affording a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the concerned persons and after recording reasons for the direction.]
44[(2) For the purpose of Chapter IIIA, the Board may,- i. by  circular,  specify  procedures  and  processes  for  carrying  out  the  purposes  of  these regulations; ii. remove  any  difficulty  in  the  interpretation  or  application  or  implementation  of  the provisions  of  these  regulations,  by  issuing  clarifications  and  specifying  procedures through circulars or guidelines.] Repeal and Savings.
12. (1) The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading) Regulations, 1992 are hereby repealed.
(2)   Notwithstanding such repeal,— (a) the  previous  operation  of  the  repealed  regulations  or  anything  duly  done  or  suffered thereunder,  any  right,  privilege,  obligation  or  liability  acquired,  accrued  or  incurred  under  the repealed  regulations,  any  penalty,  forfeiture  or  punishment  incurred  in  respect  of  any  offence committed against the repealed regulations, or any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect  of  any  such  right,  privilege,  obligation,  liability,  penalty,  forfeiture  or  punishment  as aforesaid, shall remain unaffected as if the repealed regulations had never been repealed; and (b) anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken including any adjudication,  enquiry  or  investigation  commenced  or  show-cause  notice  issued  under  the repealed regulations prior to such repeal, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of these regulations;
3.  (1)  An  application  by  a  person  for  grant  of  a  certificate  11[of  12[***]  registration] shall be made to the Board in Form A. 13[(1A)  An  application  for  registration  made  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as specified in Schedule II.]
(2)  The  application  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  made  for  any  one  of  the following categories of the merchant banker namely:— (a)  Category I, that is— (i)  to  carry  on  any  activity  of  the  issue  management,  which  will,  inter  alia, consist  of  preparation  of  prospectus  and  other  information  relating  to  the issue, determining financial structure, tie up of financiers and final allotment and refund of the subscriptions; and (ii)  to act as adviser, consultant, manager, underwriter, portfolio manager; (b)  Category  II,  that  is  to  act  as  adviser,  consultant,  co-manager,  underwriter, portfolio manager; (c)  Category III, that is to act as underwriter, adviser, consultant to an issue; (d)  Category IV, that is to act only as adviser or consultant to an issue. 14[(2A)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  this  regulation,  with  effect  from  9th December, 1997: (i)  an  application  under  sub-regulation  (2)  can  be  made  only  for  carrying  on  the activities mentioned in clause (a) therein, and (ii)  15[***] (iii)  an  applicant  can  carry  on  the  activity  as  portfolio  manager  only  if  he  obtains separate  certificate  of  registration  under  the  provisions  of  the  Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Manager) Regulations, 1993.]
(3)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1)  any  application  made by a merchant banker prior to coming into force of these regulations containing such particulars  or  as  near  thereto  as  mentioned  in  Form  A  shall  be  treated  as  an application made in pursuance of sub-regulation (1) and dealt with accordingly. Application to conform to the requirements.
4.  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  sub-regulation  (3)  of  regulation  3,  any  application, which  is  not  complete  in  all  respects  and  does  not  conform  to  the  instructions specified in the form shall be rejected : Provided that, before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given an opportunity to remove within the time specified such objections as may be indicated by the Board. Furnishing of information, clarification and personal representation.
5.  (1)  The  Board  may  require  the  applicant  to  furnish  further  information  or clarification  regarding  matters  relevant  to  the  activity  of  a  merchant  banker  for  the purpose of disposal of the application.
(2) The applicant or its principal officer shall, if so required, appear before the Board for personal representation. Consideration of application.
6.  The  Board  shall  take  into  account  for  considering  the  grant  of  a  certificate,  all matters  which  are  relevant  to  the  activities  relating  to  merchant  banker  and  in particular the applicant complies with the following requirements, namely :— 16[(a)  the  applicant  shall  be  a  body  corporate  other  than  a  non-banking  financial company  as  defined  under  clause  (f)  of  section  45-I  of  the  Reserve  Bank  of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934), as amended from time to time : 17[Provided that the merchant banker who has been granted registration by the Reserve Bank of India to act as a primary or satellite dealer may carry on such activity subject to the condition that it shall not accept or hold public deposit;] 18[(aa)] the  applicant  has  the  necessary  infrastructure  like  adequate  office space, equipments, and manpower to effectively discharge his activities; (b)  the  applicant  has  in  his  employment  minimum  of  two  persons  who  have  the experience to conduct the business of merchant banker; (c)  a person directly or indirectly connected with the applicant has not been granted registration by the Board. indirectly connected” means any person being an associate, subsidiary or inter- connected  or  group  company  of  the  applicant  in  case  of  the  applicant  being  a body corporate; (d)  The applicant fulfils the capital adequacy requirement specified in regulation 7; (e)  The  applicant,  his  partner,  director  or  principal  officer  is  not  involved  in  any litigation connected with the securities market which has an adverse bearing on the business of the applicant; (f)  The applicant, his director, partner or principal officer has not at any time been convicted  for  any  offence  involving  moral  turpitude  or  has  been  found  guilty of any economic offence; (g)  The applicant has the professional qualification from an institution recognised by the Government in finance, law or business management; 19[(gg) the applicant is a fit and proper person;] (h)  grant of certificate to the applicant is in the interest of investors. 20[Criteria for fit and proper person.
6A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the merchant banker is a fit  and  proper  person  the  Board  may  take  into  account  the  criteria  specified  in Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.] 21[Capital adequacy requirement.
7. (1) The capital adequacy requirement referred to in sub- regulation (d) of regulation 6 shall not be less than the net worth of the person making the application for grant of registration.
(2) For the purposes of sub- regulation (1), the networth shall be as follows, namely: -
7. The capital adequacy requirement referred to in clause (d) of regulation 6 shall be a net worth of not less than five crore rupees. up capital and free reserves of the applicant at the time of making application under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 3.] 22[Grant of certificate of 23[***]registration.
8.(1)  The  Board,  on  being  satisfied  that  the  applicant  is  eligible,  shall  grant  a certificate  of  24[***]  registration  in  Form  B  and  shall  send  an  intimation  to  the applicant.
(2)  25[  The  certificate  of  registration  granted  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  valid unless it is suspended or cancelled by the Board.]
(3)  26[The merchant banker who has already been granted certificate of registration by the Board, prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of Category Minimum Amount Category I  *[Rs. 5, 00, 00, 000] Category II Rs. 50, 00, 000 Category III Rs. 20, 00, 000 Category IV Nil partnership firm or a body corporate, the value of the capital contributed to the business of such firm or the paid up capital of such body corporate plus free reserves as the case may be at the time of making application under sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  3.”  *The  figure  "1,  00,  00,  000"  in  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  7  was India (Change in Conditions of Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 shall be deemed to have been granted a certificate of registration, in terms of sub-regulation (1).]
(4)  On  the  grant  of  a  certificate  of  27[***]  registration  the  merchant  banker  shall  be liable to pay the fee in accordance with Schedule II of these regulations.] 8A 28[***] 9 29[***] 35[(f) it shall immediately intimate the Board, details of changes that have taken place in the information that was submitted, while seeking registration.]
(2) Nothing contained in clause (a) of sub-regulation (1) shall affect the obligation to obtain a fresh registration under section 12 of the Act in cases where it is applicable. 36[9B ***] Procedure where registration is not granted.
10.  37[(1)  Where  an  application  for  grant  of  a  certificate  of  registration  under regulation 3 does not satisfy the criteria set out in regulation 6, the Board shall reject the application after giving an opportunity of being heard.]
38[(2) The  refusal    to  grant registration,  shall  be  communicated  by  the  Board  within thirty days of such refusal to the applicant stating therein the grounds on which the application has been rejected.]
(3)  Any  applicant  may,  being  aggrieved  by  the  decision  of  the  Board  under  sub- regulation  (1),  apply  within  a  period  of  thirty  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  such intimation to the Board for reconsideration of its decision.
(4)  The  Board  shall  reconsider  an  application  made  under  sub-regulation  (3)  and communicate its decision as soon as possible in writing to the applicant.
39[11. Effect of refusal to grant certificate of permanent registration. Any  applicant,  whose  application  for  grant  of  a  certificate  of  permanent registration has  been  refused  by  the  Board,  on  and  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  the communication, shall not carry on any activity as a merchant banker: Provided  that  the  Board  may,  in  the  interest  of  investors  in  the  securities  market, permit  the  merchant  banker  to  carry  on  activities  undertaken  prior  to  the  receipt  of the intimation of refusal subject to such condition as the Board may specify.] Payment of fees and the consequences of failure to pay fee.
12.  (1)  Every  applicant  eligible  for  grant of  a certificate  shall pay  such  fees  in  such manner and within the period specified in Schedule II.
(2)  Where  a  merchant  banker  fails  to  pay  the  annual  fees  as  provided  in  sub- regulation  (1),  read  with  Schedule  II,  the  Board  may  suspend  the  registration certificate, whereupon the merchant banker shall cease to carry on any activity as a merchant banker for the period during which the suspension subsists. CHAPTER III GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES Code of conduct.
13.  Every  merchant  banker  shall  abide  by  the  Code  of  Conduct  as  specified  in Schedule III. 40[Merchant  banker  not  to  associate  with  any  business  other  than  that  of  the securities market.
13A. No merchant banker, other than a Bank or a  41[***]Public Financial Institution, who  has  been  granted  a  certificate  of  registration  under  these  regulations  shall 42[after June 30, 1998] carry on any business other than that in the securities market. Notwithstanding anything contained above, a merchant banker who prior to the date of  notification  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Merchant  Bankers) Amendment Regulations, 1997, has entered into a contract in respect of a business other  than  that  of  the  securities  market  may,  if  he  so  desires,  discharge  his obligations under such contract: 43[Provided that a merchant banker who has been granted certificate of registration to  act  as  primary  or  satellite  dealer  by  Reserve  Bank  of  India,  may  carry  on  such business as may be permitted by the Reserve Bank of India.] 44[Provided  further  that  a  merchant  banker,  who  has  been  granted  certificate  of registration under these regulations, may ensure market making in accordance with Chapter  XA  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009] (i)  A  “bank”  shall  mean  a  banking  company  as  defined  under  section  5  of  the Banking  Regulation  Act,  1949  (10  of  1949),  and  the  corresponding  new  bank set up under the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertaking) Act, 1970 (5 of 1970), and the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertaking) Act, 1980 (40 of 1980), State Bank of India Act, 1955 (23 of 1955) and State Bank of India (Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959 (38 of 1959). (ii)  A  “public  financial  institution”  shall  have  the same  meaning  as  assigned to  the term under section 4A of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) and shall include Industrial Development Corporations and Financial Corporations established by the Central Government or State Governments, as the case may be.] Maintenance of books of account, records etc.
14.  (1)  Every  merchant  banker  shall  keep  and  maintain  the  following  books  of account, records and documents namely :— (a)  a copy of balance sheet as at the end of the each accounting period; (b)  a copy of profit and loss account for that period; (c)  a copy of the auditor’s report on the accounts for that period45[;] (d)  a statement of financial position. 46[(e) Records and documents pertaining to due diligence exercised in pre-issue and post  –issue  activities  of  issue  management  and  in  case  of  takeover,  buyback and delisting of securities.]
(2) Every merchant banker shall intimate to the Board the place where the books of account, records and documents are maintained.
(3)  Without  prejudice  to  sub-regulation  (1),  every  merchant  banker  shall,  after  the end  of  each  accounting  period  furnish  to  the  Board  copies  of  the  balance  sheet, profit  and  loss  account  and  such  other  documents  for  any  other  preceding  five accounting years when required by the Board. Submission of half-yearly results.
15. Every merchant banker shall furnish to the Board half-yearly unaudited financial results  when  required  by  the  Board  with  a  view  to  monitor  the  capital  adequacy  of the merchant banker. Maintenance of books of account, records and other documents.
16. The merchant banker shall preserve the books of account and other records and documents maintained under regulation 14 for a minimum period of five years. Report on steps taken on auditor’s report.
17.  Every  merchant  banker  shall,  within  two  months  from  the  date  of  the  auditor’s report, take steps to rectify the deficiencies made out in the auditor’s report. Appointment of lead merchant bankers.
18. 47[***] Restriction on appointment of lead managers.
19. 48[***] Responsibilities of lead managers.
20.  (1)  No  lead  manager  shall  agree  to  manage  or  be  associated  with  any  issue unless  his  responsibilities  relating  to  issue  mainly,  those  of  disclosures,  allotment and refund are clearly defined, allocated and determined and a statement specifying such responsibilities is furnished to the Board at least one month before the opening of the issue for subscription: Provided that, where there are more than one lead merchant bankers to the issue the  responsibilities  of  each  of  such  lead  merchant  bankers  shall  clearly  be demarcated  and  a  statement  specifying  such  responsibilities  shall  be  furnished  to the Board at least one month before the opening of the issue for subscription.
(2) 49[****] Lead  merchant  banker  not  to  associate  with  a  merchant  banker  without registration.
21.  A  lead  merchant  banker  shall  not  be  associated  with  any  issue  if  a  merchant banker who is not holding a certificate is associated with the issue. 50[Merchant banker not to act as such for an associate.
21A. (1) A merchant banker shall not lead manage any issue or be associated with any activity undertaken under any regulations made by the Board, if he is a promoter or a director or an associate of the issuer of securities or of any person making an offer to sell or purchase securities in terms of any regulations made by the Board: Provided that a merchant banker who is an associate of such issuer or person may be appointed, if he is involved only in the marketing of the issue or offer. deemed to be an “associate of the issuer or person” if: (i)     either  of  them  controls,  directly  or  indirectly  through  its  subsidiary  or  holding company, not less than fifteen per cent. of the  voting rights in  the other; or (ii)    either  of  them,  directly  or  indirectly,  by  itself  or  in  combination  with  other persons, exercises control over the other; or (iii)    there is a common director, excluding nominee director, amongst the issuer, its subsidiary or holding company and the  merchant banker.”] Underwriting obligations.
22.  In  respect  of  every  issue  to  be  managed,  the  lead  merchant  banker  holding  a certificate  under  Category  I  shall  accept  a  minimum  underwriting  obligation  of  five per cent of the total underwriting commitment or rupees twenty-five lacs, whichever is less : Provided  that,  if  the  lead  merchant  banker  is  unable  to  accept  the  minimum underwriting  obligation,  that  lead  merchant  banker  shall  make  arrangement  for having  the  issue  underwritten  to  that  extent  by  a  merchant  banker  associated  with the issue and shall keep the Board informed of such arrangement. 51[Provided  further  that  in  any  issue  made  in  accordance  with  Chapter  XA  of  the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations,  2009  the  merchant  banker  shall,  itself  or  jointly  with other  merchant  bankers  associated  with  the  issue,  underwrite  at  least  fifteen  per cent of the issue size.] Submission of due diligence certificate.
23. 52[****] Document to be furnished to the Board.
24. 53[****] Payment of fees to the Board.
24A. 54[****] Continuance of association of lead manager with an issue.
25. 55[****] Acquisition of shares prohibited.
26.  No  merchant  banker  or  any  of  its  directors,  partner  or  manager  or  principal officer  shall  either  on  their  respective  accounts  or  through  their  associates  or relatives, enter into any transaction in securities of bodies corporate on the basis of unpublished  price  sensitive  information  obtained  by  them  during  the  course  of  any professional assignment either from the clients or otherwise. Information to the Board.
27.  Every  merchant  banker  shall  submit  to  the  Board  complete  particulars  of  any transaction  for  acquisition  of  securities  of  any  body  corporate  whose  issue  is being managed by that merchant banker within fifteen days from the date of entering into such transaction. 56[Provided  that  complete  particulars  of  any  transaction  for  acquisition  of  securities made in pursuance of underwriting or market making obligations in accordance with Chapter  XA  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2009  shall  be  submitted  to  the  Board  on quarterly basis.] Disclosures to the Board.
2857[(1)] A merchant banker shall disclose to the Board, as and when required, the following information, namely:— (i)  his responsibilities with regard to the management of the issue; (ii)  any change in the information or particulars previously furnished, which have a bearing on the certificate granted to it; (iii)  the  names  of  the  body  corporate  whose  issues  he  has  managed  or  has  been associated with; (iv)  the  particulars  relating  to  the  breach  of  the  capital  adequacy  requirement  as specified in regulation 7; (v)  relating  to  his  activities  as a  manager,  underwriter,  consultant  or  adviser  to  an issue, as the case may be.
58[{(2) The merchant banker shall submit a periodic report in such manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time}] 59[Appointment of compliance officer.
28A.  (1)  Every  merchant  banker  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be responsible  for  monitoring  the  compliance  of  the  Act,  rules  and  regulations, notifications,  guidelines,  instructions,  etc.,  issued  by  the  Board  or  the  Central Government and for redressal of investors’ grievances.
(2) The compliance officer shall immediately and independently report to the Board any  non-compliance  observed  by  him  and  ensure  that  the  observations  made  or deficiencies pointed out by the Board on/in the draft prospectus or the letter of offer as the case may be, do not recur.] CHAPTER IV PROCEDURE FOR INSPECTION Board’s right to inspect.
29.  (1)  The  Board  may  appoint  one  or  more  persons  as  inspecting  authority  to undertake  inspection  of  the  books  of  account,  records  and  documents  of  the merchant banker for any of the purposes specified in sub-regulation (2).
(2) The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) may be as follows namely : (a)  to  ensure  that  the  books  of  account  are  being  maintained  in  the  manner required; (b)  that the provisions of the Act, rules, regulations are being complied with; (c)  to  investigate  into  the  complaints  received  from  investors,  other  merchant bankers or any other person on any matter having a bearing on the activities of the merchant banker; and (d)  to investigate suo motu in the interest of securities business or investors interest into the affairs of the merchant banker. Notice before inspection.
30. (1) Before undertaking an inspection under regulation 28 the Board shall give a reasonable notice to the merchant banker for that purpose.
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  where  the  Board  is satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may by an order in writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the merchant banker be taken up without such notice.
(3)  During  the  course  of  inspection,  the  merchant  banker,  against  whom  an inspection  is  being  carried  out,  shall  be  bound  to  discharge  his  obligations  as provided under regulation 31. Obligations of merchant banker on inspection by the Board.
31. (1) It shall be the duty of every director, proprietor, partner, officer and employee of  the  merchant  banker,  who  is  being  inspected,  to  produce  to  the  inspecting authority  such  books,  accounts  and  other  documents  in  his  custody  or  control  and furnish  him  with  the  statements  and  information  relating  to  his  activities  as  a merchant banker within such time as the inspecting authority may require.
(2)  The  merchant  banker  shall  allow  the  inspecting  authority  to  have  reasonable access  to  the  premises occupied  by  such merchant  banker or by  any  other  person on his behalf and also extend reasonable facility for examining any books, records, documents  and  computer  data  in  the  possession  of  the  merchant  banker  or  any such other person and also provide copies of documents or other materials which, in the  opinion  of  the  inspecting  authority,  are  relevant  for  the  purposes  of  the inspection.
(3) The inspecting authority, in the course of inspection, shall be entitled to examine or  record  statement  of  any  principal  officer,  director,  partner,  proprietor  and employee of the merchant banker.
(4) It shall be the duty of every director, proprietor, partner, officer or employee of the merchant banker to give to the inspecting authority all assistance in connection with inspection which the merchant banker may reasonably be expected to give. Submission of report to the Board.
32. The inspecting authority shall, as soon as may be possible submit, an inspection report to the Board. 60[Action on inspection or investigation report.
33.  The  Board  or  the  Chairman  shall  after  consideration  of  inspection  or  investi- gation  report  take  such  action  as  the  Board  or  Chairman  may  deem  fit  and appropriate  including  action  under  61[  Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008]]. Appointment of auditor.
34.  The  Board  may  appoint  a  qualified  auditor  to  investigate  into  the  books  of account or the affairs of the merchant bankers: Provided that the auditor so appointed shall have the same powers of the inspecting authority  as  are  mentioned  in  regulation  29  and  the  obligations  of  the  merchant banker in regulation 31 shall be applicable to the investigation under this regulation. shall have the same meaning as given in section 226 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956). CHAPTER V PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 62[Liability for action in case of default.
35.  A  merchant  banker  who  contravenes any  of  the  provisions of  the  Act,  Rules  or Regulations  framed  thereunder  shall  be  liable  for  one  or  more  actions  specified 60  Substituted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty)  Regulations,  2002  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India therein including the action under Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.]
36. to 43. 63[***] 64[CHAPTER VI POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
44. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not  exceeding  twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects relating  to  testing  new  products,  processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  in  live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
4.  (1)  On  and from  the  commencement  of  these  regulations,  no  person  shall  make  a  public offer  of  securitised  debt  instruments  or  seek  listing  for  such  securitised  debt  instruments unless – (a) it is constituted as a special purpose distinct entity; (b) all its trustees are registered with the Board under these regulations; and (c) it complies with all applicable provisions of these regulations and the Act.
(2)  The  requirement  of  obtaining  registration  shall  not  apply  to  the  following  persons,  who may act as trustees of special purpose distinct entities, namely:- (a) any person registered as a debenture trustee with the Board; (b) any  person  registered  as  a  securitisation  company  or  a  reconstruction  company  with  the Reserve  Bank  of  India  under  the  Securitisation  and  Reconstruction  of  Financial  Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (54 of 2002); (c) the  National  Housing  Bank  established  by  the  National  Housing  Bank  Act,  1987  (53  of 1987); (d) the  National  Bank  for  Agriculture  and  Rural  Development  established  by  the  National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development Act, 1981 (61 of 1981): Provided  that  the  aforesaid  persons  and  special  purpose  distinct  entities  in  respect  of which they are trustees shall comply with all other provisions of these regulations: Provided further that the provisions of these regulations shall not apply to the National Housing Bank and the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development to the extent of inconsistency with the provisions of their respective Acts. 19[(e) any scheduled commercial bank other than a regional rural bank; (f)  any public financial Institution as defined under clause (72) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013; and (g) any other person as may be specified by Board] 20[(2A) An applicant seeking registration to act as a trustee shall,- An application for registration shall be made by the trustee to the Board in Form A of (a) have a networth of not less than two crore rupees. paid  up  share  capital  plus  free  reserves  (excluding  reserves  created  out  of  revaluation) reduced  by  the  aggregate  value  of  accumulated  losses  and  deferred  expenditure  not  written off; (b) have in its employment a minimum of two persons who, between them, have atleast five years experience in activities related to securitisation and atleast one among them shall have a professional qualification in law from any university or institution recognised by the Central Government or any State Government or a foreign university: Provided that the above-said requirements are not applicable on the National Housing Bank established by the National Housing  Bank Act, 1987 and National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development established by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development Act, 1981 (61 of 1981).]
(3) Schedule I along with non-refundable application fees as specified in Schedule II.
(4) Any  application  which  is  not  complete  in  all  respects  and  does  not  conform  to  the instructions  specified  in  Form  A  of  Schedule I  or  which  is  incorrect, false  or  misleading  in nature shall be liable to be rejected: Provided that before rejecting any such application, the Board shall give an opportunity to the applicant to remove the objections pointed out by the Board within the time specified by the Board.
(5) The  Board  may  require  the  applicant  to  furnish  such  further  information  or explanation as is necessary in the opinion of the Board to take a decision on the application. Factors for consideration
5.  While considering an application made under regulation  4, the Board may have regard to all relevant factors, including the following, namely:- (a) where applicable those of its promoters and directors; (b) where  the  applicant  is  a  body  corporate,  its  objects  as  per  the  memorandum  of association or other constitutional document, composition of its board of directors and other relevant matters; (c) whether  the  applicant  has  adequate  infrastructure  to  ensure  proper  servicing  of  the securitisation  transaction;  adherence  to  the  terms  of  the  transaction  documents  by  the originator, underwriter, credit enhancement provider, liquidity provider, and other parties to the securitisation transaction, and ensure compliance with the provisions of the Act and these regulations; (d) a position to comply with the requirements of these regulations; (e) or indirectly connected with the applicant was rejected by the Board; (f) whether the applicant, its promoters and directors are fit and proper persons in terms of  the  criteria  specified  in  respect  of  the  intermediaries  registered  under  the  Securities  and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992). whether any previous application for grant of certificate made by any person directly the  applicant’s  track  record,  professional  competence  and  general  reputation  and, whether the applicant and the special purpose distinct entity have complied with or in The Board shall, if it decides to grant registration to the applicant, send intimation to Upon payment of registration fees, the Board shall grant a certificate to the applicant Procedure for granting registration, etc.
6.  (1) Except as otherwise provided in these regulations, the provisions relating to procedure of consideration of application, grant of registration, powers of the Board including the power to  seek  further  information,  verify  the  information  furnished  by  the  applicant,  conditions  of registration,  effect  of  refusal  of  grant  of  certificate,  etc.;as  applicable  to  any  intermediary shall apply to an applicant under these regulations.
(2) the applicant for payment of the registration fees specified in Schedule II.
(3) in Form B of Schedule I.
(4) Subject to the provisions of the Act, these regulations, conditions of certificate and the obligations  of  payments  of  fees  the  registration  granted  by  the  Board  to  a  trustee  shall  be permanent unless suspended or cancelled by the Board. Conditions of registration.
7.  Any  certificate  granted  under  regulation  6  shall  be  subject  to  the  following  conditions being complied with by the trustee, namely:- (a) of the Board for continuing to act as such after the change; (b) it shall pay the registration fees and annual fees in  the manner provided in Schedule II;  (c)  it  shall  take  adequate  steps  for  redressal  of  grievances  of  the  investors  within  one month  of  the  date  of  the  receipt  of  the  complaint  and  keep  the  Board  informed  about  the number, nature and other particulars of the complaints received; (d)  it shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations in respect of the regulated where it proposes to change its management or, control , it shall obtain prior approval activities carried on by the special purpose distinct entity; (e)  it shall forthwith inform the Board, if any information or particulars previously submitted to the Board is found to be misleading in any material respect or false; (f)  it shall forthwith inform the Board, of any material change in the information or particulars furnished, which may have a bearing on the certificate granted to it; (g) it shall abide by the Code of Conduct specified in Schedule III. Procedure where application is rejected.
8. (1) Where an application for grant of a certificate does not conform to the eligibility criteria and  other  requirements  as  set  out  in  these  regulations,  the  Board  may  reject  the  application and communicate the decision with reasons in writing: Provided that before rejecting the application, the applicant  shall be given an opportunity  to remove within a reasonable time specified by the Board, such objections as may be indicated by the Board to the applicant in writing.
(2)  Where  an  application  is  rejected  for  the  reason  that  it  contains  false  or  misleading information,  no  such  opportunity  shall  be  given  and  the  applicant  shall  not  make  any application  for  grant  of  certificate  of  registration  under  these  regulations  or  any  other regulations for a period of one year from the date of such rejection. CONSTITUTION AND MANAGEMENT OF SPECIAL PURPOSE DISTINCT CHAPTER III ENTITIES AND INCIDENTAL MATTERS Permissible structures for special purpose distinct entity.
9.  (1)  The  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  be  constituted  in  the  form  of  a  trust  the constitutional  document  whereof  entitles  the  trustees  to  issue  securitised  debt  instruments: Provided  that  originator  or  any  of  its  associates  shall  not  exercise  control  over  the  special purpose distinct entity and its trustees.
(2) The instrument of trust, whether trust deed or any other constitutional document, shall be executed by the sponsor in favour of the trustees named in such instrument.
(3) The  instrument  of  trust  shall  contain  such  clauses  as  are  mentioned  in  Schedule  IV  and such  other  clauses  which  are  necessary  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  the securitised debt instruments. A  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  not  raise  any  moneys  in  the  form  of  debt  or The  special  purpose  distinct  entity  and  the  trustee  shall  adopt  internal  procedures
(4) No instrument of trust shall contain a clause which has the effect of – (i)  limiting  or  extinguishing  the  obligations  and  liabilities  of  the  trustees  or  the  special purpose  distinct  entity  in  relation  to  any  scheme  or  the  rights  or  interests  of  investors;  (ii) limiting or restricting or waiving the provisions of the Act, these regulations and circulars or guidelines issued by the Board; (iii) indemnifying the trustees or the special purpose distinct entity for loss or damage caused to the investors by their act of negligence or commission or omission.
(5) designed to avoid conflict of interest.
(6) issue any debt securities other than through issue of securitised debt instruments: Provided  that  the  restriction  contained  in  this  sub-regulation  shall  not  apply  to  issue  of security receipts.
(7) A special purpose distinct  entity  shall be entitled, in  terms of the trust  deed or other constitutional  document,  to  segregate  the  debt  or  receivables  out  of  the  asset  pool  for  the purpose of servicing of any securitised debt instrument in accordance with the scheme.
(8) The  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  not  be  dissolved  until  the  securitised  debt instruments issued under all its schemes are fully redeemed or written off in accordance with their terms of issue.
(9) Trustees who are nominees of the sponsor or the originator or who are associated in any manner with the sponsor or the originator or with a company in the same management as the sponsor or originator shall not constitute more than one half of the Board of Trustees of the special purpose distinct entity, as the case may be.
(10)  Where the special purpose distinct entity proposes to launch multiple schemes, - (a) it shall  be  capable  in  terms  of  the  trust  deed  or  other  constitutional  document,  of  segregating multiple securitisation schemes; and (b) the terms of issue of securitised debt instruments proposed to be issued under each scheme or each series of such instruments shall restrict  the rights of investors therein to the relevant asset pool alone.
(11)  The  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  not  carry  on  any  activity  other  than  regulated activities and those incidental thereto and it shall not engage in: (a) business of lending or investment except making passive financial investments required in accordance with the scheme; (b) activities of an asset management company or portfolio manager or a mutual fund: Provided that the restriction provided in clause (a) shall not apply to – (i)  any  trust  or  other  body  promoted  by the  National  Housing  Bank,  in  respect  of  activities undertaken by it in terms of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987 (53 of 1987); (ii) any trust or  other  body  promoted  by  the  National  Bank  for  Agriculture  and  Rural  Development,  in respect of activities undertaken by it in terms of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development Act, 1981 (61 of 1981); (iii)  any  trust  set  up  by  a  securitisation  company  or  reconstruction  company  in  respect  of activities  undertaken  by  it  in  terms  of  the  Securitisation  and  Reconstruction  of  Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (54 of 2002); (iv)any securitisation undertaken by a special purpose distinct  entity, which involves private placement  of  any  instruments  representing  securitised  debt  which  are  not  proposed  to  be listed on any recognised stock exchange. Assignment of debt or receivables.
10.  (1)  The  originator  and  the  trustee  shall  ensure  in  respect  of  the  debt  or  receivables assigned to the special purpose distinct entity that the following conditions are fulfilled: (a) the  debt  or  receivables  generates  or  is  reasonably  expected  to  generate  identifiable cash  flows  for  the  purpose  of  servicing  the  securitised  debt  instruments  in  accordance  with the scheme; (b) assets prior to the securitisation; (c) the  debt  or  receivables  is  free  from  any  encumbrances  or  impediments  to  their  free transfer or the transfer of the rights attaching thereto and their transfer does not constitute an event of default or acceleration trigger under any agreement; (d) the necessary regulatory or contractual permissions or consents have been obtained in order  to  effect  the  transfer  of  such  debt  or  receivables  from  the  originator  to  the  special purpose distinct entity; (e) to exercise the right of set-off in relation to such assets; (f) transaction and solely on commercial considerations; and (g) receivables are duly adhered to.
(2) The special purpose distinct entity and the originator shall take all necessary steps to ensure  that  the  debt  or  receivables  acquired  by  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  are  duly assigned in its name and are legally realizable by it.
(3) No  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  acquire  any  debt  or  receivables  from  any originator  which  is  part  of  the  same  group  or  which  is  under  the  same  management  as  the trustee. (a) two persons shall be deemed to be “part of the same group” if they belong to the same group within the meaning of clause (ef) of section 2 of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices  Act,  1969  (54  of  1969)  or  if  they  own  “inter-connected  undertakings”  within  the meaning of clause (g) of section 2 of that Act; (b) subsection (1B) of section 370 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956). the originator has not done or omitted to do anything which enables any of his debtors the  expression  “under  the  same  management”  shall  have  the  meaning  derived  from the originator has a valid enforceable interest in the assets and in the cash flow of the the  debt  or  receivables  is  transferred  at  a  price  arrived  at  through  an  arms’  length any  representations  and  warranties  made  by  the  originator  regarding  the  debt  or supervise  the  implementation  of the  covenants  regarding  creation  of  security for  the do  such  acts  as  are  necessary  in  the  event  the  security  becomes  enforceable  and
(4) The securitisation transaction shall be structured in such a manner so as to minimise the risk of the asset pool being consolidated with the assets of the originator or the sponsor, in the event of insolvency or winding up of either of them.
(5) The  special  purpose  distinct  entity  and  its  trustees  shall  ensure  that  the  debt  and receivables assigned to it are through a genuine transaction amounting to a true sale and are legally realizable by it and the special purpose distinct entity shall be remote from the risk of bankruptcy, insolvency and winding up of the originator, sponsor and any other entity. Obligations of trustees
11. (1) A trustee shall carry out his duties and perform his functions under these regulations, the trust deed or other document, with due care and diligence.
(2)  The  trustees  shall  ensure  that  the  covenants  in  the  trust  deed  and  any  other  transaction document are complied with by the concerned parties.
21[(3) A trustee shall,- (a) securitised debt instruments; (b) supervise the enforcement of the security in the interest of the investors; (c) carry out such acts as are necessary for resolving the grievances of the investors and for  the  protection  of  interest  of  the  investors;  ensure  on  a  continuous  basis  that  the  trust property  of  a  particular  scheme/tranche  is  available  at  all  times  to  pay  the  securitised  debt instruments  holders  of  that  particular  scheme/tranche;  (e)  exercise  due  diligence  to  ensure compliance  by  the  originators,  with  the  listing  agreements  (if  applicable),  the  trust  deed  or any  other  transaction  document  and  if  the  originator  is  a  banking  company  or  non-banking financial company as defined in the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, trustee shall ensure that it has complied with the guidelines prescribed for securitisation by Reserve Bank of India; (f) take appropriate measures for protecting the interest  of the investors including informing the  board  about  any  action,  legal  proceeding,  etc.,  initiated  against  it  in  respect  of  any material breach or noncompliance by it, of any law, rules, regulations, directions of the Board or  of  any  other  regulatory  body;  (g)  ensure  that  the  securitised  debt  instruments  have  been repaid or redeemed in accordance with the provisions and conditions under which they were offered to the investors; (h) underlying asset pool, atleast on quarterly basis; (i) obligations and the actions taken thereof, atleast on quarterly basis; (j) obtain  a  certificate  from  the  auditor(s)  of  originator  regarding  the  disclosures  of underlying  asset  pool  assigned  to  the  securitization  trust,  as  made  by  the  originator,  on quarterly basis; (k) share  such  reports  and  auditors  certificate  as  received  from  the  originator  or  the auditor(s)  of  originator,  with  the  credit  rating  agency  which  is  rating  the  securitised  debt instrument; (l) call a meeting of all the investors on a requisition, in writing signed by at least one-tenth of investors in value for the time being outstanding or at the occurrence of an event, which constitutes a servicer default or which in the opinion of the trustees affects the interest of the investors; call  for  periodic  reports  from  the  originator  regarding  the  performance  of  the communicate  to  the  investors  regarding  the  compliance  by  the  servicer  with  its (m)  maintain  the  net  worth  as  per  the  requirements  specified  in  these  regulations  on  a continuous basis and inform  the Board immediately  in respect  of any shortfall in the net worth and take necessary corrective action to restore the net worth within a period of six months; (n) ensure  that  any  change  in  registration  status  or  any  administrative,  civil  or  penal  action taken  by  Board  or  any  material  change  in  financial  position  which  may  adversely  affect the interests of investors is promptly informed to the investors; (o) not  relinquish  responsibility  as  trustee  in  respect  of  the  issue,  unless  and  until  another trustee is appointed in its place; (p) have necessary infrastructure to discharge its duties including the following: (i) collecting information and reports from servicers/originator; (ii) generating  cash  flow  reports,  payment  reports  and  meet  all  reporting  requirements required under the Board's or Reserve Bank of India's guidelines/circulars;  (iii) recording investor information; entering  and  maintaining  data  for  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity,  including  cash issuing  cheques/demand  drafts  or  generating  RTGS/NEFT  requests  etc.,  for  interest sufficient access controls to ensure confidentiality of data; (vii) sufficient systems for (iv) flows, audited financials, taxation aspects etc.; (v) and principal payments; (vi) backup and disaster recovery. (q) appoint a compliance officer for performing duties including: (i)  monitoring  the  compliance  of  the  acts,  rules  and  regulations,  notifications,  guidelines, instructions,  etc.,  issued  by  the  Board,  Central  Government  and  State  Government(s);  (ii) redressal of investors grievances.] CHAPTER IV SCHEMES OF SPECIAL PURPOSE DISTINCT ENTITIES Launching of schemes.
12.  (1)  A  special  purpose  distinct  entity  may  raise  funds  by  making  an  offer  of  securitised debt instruments through formulating schemes in accordance with these regulations.
(2)  Where  there  are  multiple  schemes,  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  maintain separate and distinct accounts in respect of each such scheme and shall not commingle asset pools or realisations of a scheme with those of other schemes.
(3) A special  purpose distinct  entity  and trustees thereof shall ensure that realisations of debts  and  receivables  are  held  and  correctly  applied  towards redemption  of  securitised  debt instruments  issued  under  the  respective  schemes  or  towards  payment  of  returns  on  such instruments or towards other permissible expenditure of the scheme.
(4) clean -up call option by the special purpose distinct entity, subject to adequate disclosures.
(5) No  expenses  shall  be  charged  to  the  scheme  in  excess  of  the  allowable  expenses  as may be specified in the scheme and any such expenditure, if incurred, shall be borne by the trustees. Obligation to redeem securitised debt instruments.
13.  (1)  The  trustee  and  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  ensure  timely  payment  of interest  and  redemption  amounts  to  the  investors  in  terms  of  the  offer  document  or  other The  terms  of  issue  of  the  securitised  debt  instruments  may  provide for  exercise  of  a terms of issue of the securitised debt instruments out  of the realisations from the asset  pool, credit enhancer or liquidity provider.
(2) The  trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  servicer  adopts  such  prudent  measures  as  may  be expected under the origination documents to recover the dues from the obligors in the event of any default in any portion thereof.
(3) The  expected  period  of  maturity  of  each  scheme  and  the  possibility  of  extension  or shortening  of  such  period  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  offer  document  together  with  the  likely circumstances in which such extension or shortening may take place. Credit enhancement and liquidity facilities.
14.  (1)  A  special  purpose  distinct  entity  may  opt  for  credit  enhancement  of  the  asset  pool, subject to making full disclosures of the arrangements in the offer document or the particulars submitted to the recognised stock exchange.
(2) A special purpose distinct entity may avail the services of a liquidity provider, subject to making full disclosures of the arrangements in the offer document or the particulars submitted to the recognised stock exchange. Servicers.
15. (1) A special purpose distinct entity may appoint either the originator or any other person as servicer in respect of any of its schemes, subject to the following, namely:- (a) the trustees shall  ensure  that  the  servicer  keeps  proper  accounts  in  respect  of  the  activities  delegated  to him; (b) the trustees shall ensure that the servicer has adequate operational systems and resources to administer the asset pool in relation to a securitisation transaction.
(2)  Servicer  may  be  appointed  by  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  to  do  all  or  any  of  the following, namely:- (i) to coordinate with the obligors, manage the asset pool and collections therefrom; (ii) administer  the  cash  flows  of  such  asset  pool,  distributions  to  investors;  and reinvestment, if any, in accordance with the scheme; and (iii) manage incidental matters.
(3)  Where  a  special  purpose  distinct  entity  appoints  the  originator  as  servicer,  it  shall  adopt internal procedures designed to avoid conflict of interest. Accounts.
16. (1) Without prejudice to provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), or any other applicable  law,  a  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained proper  accounts  and  records  to  enable  a  true  and  fair  view  to  be  formed  of  its  assets, liabilities,  income  and  expenditure  and  those  of  all  its  schemes  and  to  comply  with  the disclosure requirements of these regulations and other applicable laws.
(2) The accounts of a scheme shall be maintained in such a manner so as to disclose as on the most recent pay out date, the financial position of the scheme and shall in particular give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the scheme.
(3) The  accounts  of  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  and  all  its  schemes  shall  be maintained in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and having regard to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India or as may be specified by the Board in respect of accounting for schemes. Audit.
17.  (1) The accounts of the schemes formulated by a special purpose distinct  entity  shall be audited by a chartered accountant in practice within the meaning of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 (38 of 1949) at such frequency as may be specified in the listing agreement or conditions.
(2) Such audit shall be conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.
(3) The scope of such audit may be specified by the Board. Maintenance of records.
18. (1) A special purpose distinct entity shall maintain or cause to be maintained other records and  documents,  including  a  register  of  holders  of  securitised  debt  instruments,  for  each scheme so as to explain its transactions and its accounts: Provided  that  the  register  of  beneficial  owners  maintained  by  a  depository  in  respect  of securitised  debt  instruments  held  in  dematerialised  form  with  it  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a register of holders of securitised debt instruments for the purposes of these regulations.
(2) A  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  intimate  to  the  Board  the  places  where  the records  and  documents  maintained  under  sub-regulation  (1)  and  the  accounts  maintained under regulation 16 are kept.
(3) The  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  maintain  its  books  of  account,  records  and other  documents  in  respect  of  its  schemes  for  a  minimum  period  of  eight  years  from  the redemption of all instruments issued under the scheme. Holding of originator.
19.  (1)  No  originator  shall  at  any  time  subscribe  to  or  hold  securitised  debt  instruments  in excess  of  twenty  per  cent  of  the  total  securitised  debt  instruments  issued  by  the  special purpose distinct entity in a particular scheme.
(2) Nothing  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  apply  to  the  holdings  of  an  originator acquired  on  account  of  underwriting  of  a  public  issue  of  securitised  debt  instruments  or  in pursuance of an arrangement for credit enhancement: Provided that the possibilities of such holdings are disclosed in the offer document or in the listing particulars.
(3) classes of securitised debt instruments which are offered to the public or listed. Winding up of schemes.
20. A scheme may be wound up in the event of the following: (a)  when  the  securitised  debt  instruments  have  been  fully  redeemed  as  per  the  scheme;  (b) upon legal maturity as stated in the terms of issue of the securitised debt instrument: Provided that  if  any  debt  or receivable  is  outstanding  on  legal  maturity, the  trustees  shall  dispose  off the same in accordance with the scheme and distribute the proceeds; (c) by vote of investors by a special resolution as provided in regulation 34. For  the  removal  of  doubts,  it  is  clarified  that  sub-regulation  (1)  applies  only  to  the CHAPTER V PUBLIC OFFER OF SECURITISED DEBT INSTRUMENTS Offer to the public.
21. (1) This Chapter shall be applicable to offer of securitised debt instruments to the public.
(2) Any  reference  in  these  regulations  to  offering  securitised  debt  instruments  to  the public  shall  be  construed  as  including  a  reference  to  offering  them  to  any  section  of  the public.
(3) offer can properly be regarded, in all the circumstances – (a) as  not  being  likely  to  result,  directly  or  indirectly,  in  the  securitised  debt  instruments becoming available for subscription or purchase by persons other than those receiving the offer; No offer shall be treated as made to the public by virtue of sub-regulation  (1), if the Such offer document shall be filed along with the minimum filing fee as mentioned in (b) otherwise as being the domestic concern of the persons making and receiving the offer.
(4) Notwithstanding sub-regulation (2), any offer of securitised debt instruments made to fifty or more persons in a financial year shall always be deemed to have been made to the public: Provided that sub-regulation (3) applies only in respect of securitised debt instruments which belong to the same tranche and which are pari passu in all respects. period of twelve months commencing from the 1st day of April in any year. Submission of draft offer document and filing of final offer document.
22. (1) No special purpose distinct entity or trustee thereof shall make an offer of securitised debt  instruments  to  the  public  unless  it  files  a  draft  offer  document  with  the  Board  at  least fifteen working days before the proposed opening of the issue.
(2) Schedule II: Provided that the balance filing fee provided in Schedule II shall be paid to the Board within seven days of closure of the public offer.
(3) If the Board specifies  any changes to  be made in the offer document within  the said period  of  fifteen  working  days,  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  and  trustee  thereof  shall carry out such changes in the draft offer document prior to filing it with the designated stock exchange under regulation 35 or issuing it.
(4) The  final  offer  document  shall  be  filed  with  the  Board  and  with  every  recognised stock  exchange  to  which  an  application  for  listing  of  the  securitised  debt  instruments  is proposed to be made prior to its issuance to public. Arrangements for dematerialisation.
23.  (1) Prior to  submitting the draft  offer document with  the Board under regulation  22, the special purpose distinct entity shall enter into an arrangement with a registered depository for dematerialisation  of  the  securitised  debt  instruments  that  are  proposed  to  be  issued  to  the public.
(2) securitised debt instruments either in the physical form or in dematerialised form.
(3) holders of physical instruments. The special purpose distinct entity shall give an option to the investors to receive the The holders of dematerialised instruments shall have the same rights and liabilities as All credit ratings obtained by a special purpose distinct entity on the securitised debt Mandatory listing.
24.  A  special  purpose  distinct  entity  desirous  of  making  an  offer  of  securitised  debt instruments to the public shall make an application for listing to one or more recognized stock exchanges in terms of sub-section (2) of section 17A of the Act. Credit rating.
25. (1) No special purpose distinct entity shall offer securitised debt instruments to the public unless credit rating is obtained from not less than two registered credit rating agencies.
(2) instruments shall be disclosed in the offer document, including unaccepted credit ratings.
(3) A  credit  rating  agency  rating  the  securitised  debt  instruments  issued  by  a  special purpose  distinct  entity  shall  include  reference  to  the  following  in  the  rating  rationale:  (a) quality of the asset pool and the strength of cash flows; (b) payment structure; (c) adequacy of credit enhancements; (d) originator profile; (e) risks and concerns for investors and mitigating factors; (f)  quality and experience of the servicer; (g) terms of the servicer contract; (h) provision for appointment of back-up servicer, if any; (i) any other relevant information. Contents of offer document.
26.  (1) An offer document issued by a special purpose distinct  entity or trustee thereof shall contain  all  material  information  which  is  true,  fair  and  adequate  for  an  investorto  make informed investment decision and shall also disclose the matters specified in Schedule V.
(2)  An  offer  document  shall  not  include  a  statement  purporting  to  be  made  by  an  expert unless – (a) he  has  given  his  written  consent  to  the  offer  document  being  issued  with  the  statement included in the form and context in which it is included; (b) such consent is not revoked by him prior to its filing with the Board; and (c) a statement that he has given and has not  withdrawn his consent  as aforesaid  appears in the offer document. sub-section (2) of section 59 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956). Prohibition of misstatements in the offer document.
27. (1) An offer document or any report or memorandum issued by a special purpose distinct entity in connection with an offer of securitised debt instruments shall not contain any false or misleading statement.
(2)  An  offer  document  shall  not  omit  disclosure  of  any  material  fact  which  may  make  the statements  made  therein,  in  light  of  the  circumstances  under  which  they  are  made, misleading. Underwriting of the issue.
28. underwriter registered with the Board. A  public  offer  made  by  a  special  purpose  distinct  entity  may  be  underwritten  by  an No public offer of securitised debt instruments shall remain open for more than thirty
(1)  The  offer  document  shall  disclose  the  minimum  subscription  it  seeks  to  raise Offer period.
29. days. Minimum subscription.
30. under the scheme.
(2) No  securitised  debt  instruments  shall  be  allotted  under  the  public  offer  unless subscriptions  have  been  received  in  respect  of  the  minimum  number  of  securitised  debt instruments which will constitute minimum subscription.
(3) In  the  event  of  non  receipt  of  minimum  subscription  or  refusal  of  listing  by  any recognised  stock  exchange,  all  application  moneys  received  in  the  public  offer  shall  be refunded forthwith to the applicants. refers to the amount which, in the opinion of the directors of the originator and trustees of the special purpose distinct entity, must be raised by issue of securitised debt instruments. Allotment and other obligations.
31. (1) The securitised debt instruments shall be allotted to the investors within the following time periods:- (a) in case of dematerialized securitised debt instruments – within five days of closure of the offer; (b) in  case  of  securitised  debt  instruments  in  the  physical  form  –  the  certificates  shall  be dispatched within eight days of closure of the offer. The  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  dispatch  refund  orders  to  unsuccessful  or No  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  retain  any  oversubscription  received  in  any
(2) public offer.
(3) In  the  event  of  over-subscription,  the  allotment  shall  be  made  as  per  the  basis  of allotment  finalized  in  consultation  with  the  recognized  stock  exchanges  to  which  an application for listing was made.
(4) partially successful applicants within eight days of closure of the offer.
(5) In a case where the issue proceeds become liable to be  refunded in accordance with the disclosures made in the offer document, the special purpose distinct entity shall dispatch refund orders to the applicants within eight days of closure of the offer.
(6)  Where  the  allotment  is  not  made  within  the  time  period  mentioned  in  clause  (a)  of subregulation  (1)  or  where  the  certificates  are  not  dispatched  within  the  time  mentioned  in clause (b) of sub-regulation (1), the special purpose distinct entity and every trustee thereof, and where any such trustee is a body corporate, every director thereof, who is in default shall, on and from the expiry of such period, be jointly and severally liable to pay interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum to the concerned applicants.
(7)  Where  the  refund  orders  are  not  dispatched  within  the  time  mentioned  in  sub- regulations (4) or (5), the special purpose distinct entity and every trustee thereof, and where any  such  trustee  is  a  body  corporate,  every  director  thereof,  who  is  in  default  shall,  on  and from  the  expiry  of  the  eighth  day,  be  jointly  and  severally  liable  to  repay  that  money  with interest at the rate of fifteen per cent per annum. Sub-regulations (6) and (7) shall have effect without prejudice to any other provisions
(8) of these regulations or any other law.
22[(9)  Credit  to  demat  accounts  of  the  allottees  shall  be  made  by  the  issuer  within  two working days from the date of allotment.] Post issue obligations.
32. to the Board or to the investors, as directed by the Board from time to time. The special purpose distinct entity shall file such reports and furnish such information CHAPTER VI RIGHTS OF INVESTORS Transferability of securitised debt instruments.
33. Subject  to  the  provisions  of regulation  38,  the  securitised  debt  instruments issued  to the public or listed on a recognized stock exchange in accordance with these regulations shall be freely transferable. Rights of investors in securities issued by special purpose distinct entity.
34. (1) The trust deed or other instrument comprising the terms of issue of the securitised debt  instruments  issued  by  a  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  provide  that  investors holding such securitised debt instruments have such beneficial interest in the underlying debt or receivables as may have been conferred by the scheme.
(2) In the event of failure of the special purpose distinct entity to redeem any securitised debt instruments  offered  through  an  offer  document  or  listed,  within  the  time  and  in accordance  with  the  conditions  stated  in  the  offer  document  or  other  terms  of issue,  the investors  holding  not  less  than  ten  per  cent  in  nominal  value  of  such  securitised  debt instruments shall be entitled to call a meeting of all such investors.
(3) In such meeting, the investors may move a motion to– (a) call  upon  the  trustee  and  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  to  wind  up  the  scheme  and distribute the realisations; (b) remove the trustee; (c) appoint a new trustee in place of the one removed under clause (b): Provided  that  any  such  decision  shall  be  taken  by  means  of  a  special  resolution  of  the investors  of  the  scheme  and  sections  179  and  189  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  (1  of  1956) shall mutatis mutandis apply to such special resolution: Provided further that the new trustee appointed under clause (c) is registered with the Board under these regulations or is exempted from such registration.
(4) carry out the resolutions passed by the investors under sub-regulation (3).
(5) Any  reasonable  expenses  incurred  in  calling  and  holding  a  meeting  under  sub- regulation (3) and any reasonable expenses incurred by the trustee or the new trustee, as the case  may  be,  in  winding  up  the  scheme  and  incidental  activities  shall  be  met  from  or reimbursed out of realisations from the asset pool. The  trustee  and  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  take  all  reasonable  steps  to The  terms  of  issue  of  securitised  debt  instruments  shall  not  be  adversely  varied
(6) without the consent of the investors.
(7) For  purposes  of  sub-regulation  (6),  investors  shall  be  deemed  to  have  given  their consent  to  variation  if  and  only  if  twenty  one  days  notice  is  given  to  them  of the  proposed variation and it is approved by a special resolution passed by them through postal ballot.
(8) Sections 189 and 192A of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) and the rules framed thereunder shall mutatis mutandis apply to the special resolution referred to in sub-regulation
(7). CHAPTER VII LISTING OF SECURITISED DEBT INSTRUMENTS Application for listing.
35. (1) A special purpose distinct entity required by sub-section (2) of section 17A of the Act to  get  the securitised debt  instruments issued by it  listed on a recognised stock exchange or otherwise desirous of getting the securitised debt instruments issued by it so listed shall make an  application  to  the  stock  exchange  in  the  form  specified  by  it  along  with  the  following documents and particulars: (a) trust deed or other constitutional document, as the case may be; (b) copies  of  all  offer  documents  and  advertisements  in  connection  with  offer  of  securitised debt instruments by the special purpose distinct entity or its trustee at any time; (c) certified  copy  of  every  material  document  or  proposed  document  which  is referred  to  in any such offer document; (d) certified  copies  of  agreements  or memoranda  of understanding  relating  to  acquisition  or proposed acquisition of debt or receivables from a financial institution or other person; (e) certified copy of certificate of registration granted by the Board to the trustee under these regulations; (f)  specimen  of  any  other  securitised  debt  instrument  issued  by  the  special  purpose  distinct entity which are listed or proposed to be listed; (g) any other document or particular as may be required by the stock exchange.
(2)  As  a  condition  for  listing,  the  securitised  debt  instruments  issued  by  a  special  purpose distinct entity shall have the following characteristics: (a) free transferability; (b) being in the nature of such undivided beneficial interest of the investors in the asset pool as  is  specified  in  the  scheme,  and  not  constituting  debt  of  the  special  purpose  distinct entity or originator; (c) maintenance of a record of the holders thereof, whether holding the same in physical form or dematerialized form.
(3) The  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  enter  into  a  listing  agreement  with  the recognised stock exchanges where the securitised debt instruments are proposed to be listed.
(4) In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  sub-rule  (7)  of  rule  19  of  the  Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957, the Board hereby waives the strict enforcement of sub- rules (1) to (3) of the said rule in relation to listing of securitised debt instruments issued in terms of these regulations, subject to compliance with these regulations. 23[Listing Agreement.
35A. (1) Every special purpose distinct entity desirous of listing securitised debt instruments on a recognised stock exchange, shall execute an agreement with such stock exchange.
(2) Every special purpose distinct entity which has previously entered into agreements with a recognised  stock  exchange  to  list  securitised  debt  instruments  shall  execute  a  fresh  listing agreement  with  such  stock  exchange  within  six  months  of  the  date  of  notification  of Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
24[. ]] Minimum public offering for listing
36. (1) In respect of public offers of securitised debt instruments, the special purpose distinct entity  or  trustee  thereof  shall  satisfy  the  recognised  stock  exchange  to  which  a  listing application is made that each scheme of securitised debt instruments was offered to the public for subscription through advertisements in newspapers for a period of not less than two days and that applications received in pursuance of the offer were allotted in accordance with these regulations and the disclosures made in the offer document.
(2) In  case  of  a  private  placement  of  securitised  debt  instruments,  the  special  purpose distinct  entity  shall  ensure  that  it  has  obtained  credit  rating  from  a  registered  credit  rating agency in respect of its securitised debt instruments.
25[(3)  In  case  of  a  private  placement  of  securitised  debt  instruments,  the  special  purpose distinct entity shall file listing particulars with the recognised stock exchange, along with the application  made  under  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  35,  containing  such  information  as may be necessary for any investor in the secondary market to make an informed investment decision  in  respect  of its securitised debt  instruments and the special purpose distinct  entity shall promptly disseminate such information, as prescribed, in such manner as the recognised stock exchange(s) may determine from time to time.]
(4) All  credit  ratings  obtained  pursuant  to  sub-regulation  (2),  including  unaccepted ratings,  if  any,  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  listing  particulars  filed  with  the  recognised  stock exchange under sub-regulation (3). 26[Continous listing conditions.
37.  The  special  purpose  distinct  entity  or  trustee  thereof  shall  submit  such  information, including financial information relating to the schemes, to the stock exchanges  and investors and  comply  with  such  other  continuing  obligations  as  may  be  stipulated  in  the  listing agreement.] Trading of securitised debt instruments
38. The securitised debt instruments issued to the public or on a private placement basis, which  are  listed  in  recognised  stock  exchanges,  shall  be  traded  and  such  trades  shall  be cleared  and  settled  in  recognised  stock  exchanges  subject  to  conditions  specified  by  the Board. 27[CHAPTER VII A ISSUANCE AND LISTING OF SECURITY RECEIPTS ELIGIBILITY
38A.  An  issuer  proposing  to  issue  and  list  security  receipts  or  only  list  its  already  issued security receipts shall comply with the provisions of this chapter.
38B. Security receipts proposed to be listed in terms of this chapter shall; i. ii. iii. be  issued  in  compliance  with  the  applicable  rules  and  guidelines,  as  framed  by  the Reserve Bank of India, from time to time; be issued on a private placement basis; comply with the provisions pertaining to issue of security receipts,; Sale of security receipts by the existing holders
38C. (1) Any existing holder of security receipts, who proposes to sell, whole or part of, its holding  of  security  receipts  to  the  qualified  buyers  on  private  placement  basis,  where  such security  receipts  are  proposed  to  be  listed,  may  do  so,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of this Chapter. Provided  that  such  sale  by  any  holder  of  security  receipts  shall  be  permitted  only  if  the holding is not less than fifty percent of the outstanding security receipts.
(2)  A  sale  of  security  receipts  by  any  existing  holder  of  such  security  receipts  under  these regulations,  shall  be  subject  to  the  issuer  compulsorily  listing  the  security  receipts  before complying with the provisions of this chapter. Conditions for Listing of Security Receipts
38D. (1) An issuer may list its security receipts on a recognized stock exchange subject to the following conditions: (a)  the security receipts have been issued on a private placement basis; (b)  the issuer has issued such security receipts in compliance with the applicable laws; (c)  the  offer  or  invitation  to  subscribe  to  security  receipts  shall  be  made  to  such  number  of persons not exceeding two hundred or such other number, in a financial year, as may be prescribed from time to time. (d)  the security receipts proposed to be listed are in dematerialized form; (e)  the disclosures as provided in regulation 38E have been made in the offer document; (f)  the minimum allotment made to the qualified buyers is Rs. 10 lakhs; (g)  such security receipts have been valued prior to listing; Provided that such valuation shall not be more than three months old from the date of listing and shall be done by an independent valuer; (h)  the security receipts have been rated by a credit rating agency registered with the Board. Provided that such rating shall not be more than three months old from the date of listing.
(2) The issuer shall comply with the conditions of listing of such security receipts as specified in  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. Offer Document
38E.  (1)  An issuer seeking  listing of security receipts on a recognized stock exchange shall make such disclosures in the offer document as specified by the Reserve Bank of India from time to time, and as specified in Schedule VA of these regulations. Provided that the offer document shall not contain any false or misleading statement and shall disclose all material facts.
(2)  The  offer  document  as  provided  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  made  available  for download on the web sites of stock exchanges where such securities are listed.
38F. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (7) of rule 19 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957, the Board shall waive the strict enforcement of sub-rules (1) to (3) of the said rule in relation to listing of security receipts issued in terms of these regulations, subject to compliance with these regulations. Valuation, rating and NAV disclosure
38G.  (1)  An  issuer  whose  security  receipts  are  listed  on  a  recognized  stock  exchange  shall ensure that: a)  the listed security receipts are valued at the end of each quarter  i.e. as on March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of every year, b)  valuation is conducted by an independent valuer; and c)  the  net  asset  value  is  calculated  on  the  basis  of  such  independent  valuation  and  the same is declared by the asset reconstruction company within fifteen days of the end of the quarter.
(2)  The  issuer  shall  also  comply  with  the  extant  Reserve  Bank  of  India  requirement  of obtaining  credit  rating  of  security  receipts  at  half  yearly  interval  and  declaration  of  the  net asset  value  thereafter  and/or  any  other  requirement  as  prescribed  by  the  Reserve  Bank  of India from time to time. Provided that in those two quarters in a year, where both external valuation and credit rating are required, issuer shall disclose lower of the two calculated NAVs. Trading of security receipts
38H.  (1)  The  security  receipts  issued  on  a  private  placement  basis,  which  are  listed  on recognised  stock  exchanges,  shall  be  traded  and  such  trades  shall  be  cleared  and  settled  in recognised stock exchanges subject to conditions specified by the Board.
(2) The trading lot of the security receipts shall not be less than Rs 10 lakh.
(3) The trades of security receipts which have been made over the counter, shall be reported on a recognized stock exchange having a nation-wide trading terminal or such other platform as may be specified by the Board.
(4)  The  Board  may  specify  conditions  for  reporting  of  trades  on  the  recognized  stock exchange or other platform referred to in sub-regulation (3).] INSPECTION AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS CHAPTER VIII Power to call for information
39. The  Board  may  call  for  information  from  the  originator,  special  purpose  distinct entity,  trustee  (whether  registered  with  the  Board  or  not),  sponsor,  servicers,  underwriters, credit enhancers, liquidity providers or any other person associated with securitisation or any regulated activity. Right of inspection by the Board.
40. (1)  Without  prejudice  to  provisions  of  sections  11  and  11C  of  the  Securities  and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Board may appoint one or more persons to  undertake  the  inspection  of  the  books  of  account,  records  and  documents  of  the  special purpose distinct entity or any of its schemes or its trustee (whether registered with the Board or not) or servicer or any other agent for any of the purposes specified in sub-regulation (2).
(2) The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) may be as follows, namely:- (a) done in a proper manner; to verify whether the books of account are being maintained and valuations are being During  the  course  of  inspection  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  and  other  persons (b) to  verify  whether  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the rules and regulations made thereunder are being complied with; (c) to inquire into the complaints received from investors, other market participants or any  other  persons  on  any  matter  having  a  bearing  on  the  regulated  activities  of  the  special purpose distinct entity; (d) to inquire into affairs of the special purpose distinct entity suo-moto in the interest of investor  protection  or  the  integrity  of  the  market  in  so  far  as  it  relates  to  its  regulated activities; (e) to  inquire  whether  securitisation  or  regulated  activity  is  being  carried  on  as  per provisions of the Act  and these regulations;  (f) to inquire whether the Code of Conduct  has been observed. Notice before inspection.
41.  (1)  Before  undertaking  an  inspection  under  regulation  40,  the  Board  shall  give  a reasonable notice to the special purpose distinct entity or other person.
(2) Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  where  the  Board  is satisfied  that  in  the  interest  of  the  investors  no  such  notice  should  be  given,  it  may  by  an order in writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the special purpose distinct entity or other person be  taken up without such notice.
(3) shall be bound to discharge its obligations as provided under regulation 42. Obligations of special purpose distinct entities on inspection.
42.  (1) It shall be the duty of every director, trustee, officer, employee, servicer or any other agent of the special purpose distinct entity who is being inspected to produce to the inspecting authority such books of accounts and other documents in  his custody or control and furnish him  with  such  statements  and  information  relating  to  regulated  activities  of  the  special purpose distinct entity as he may require within the specified time.
(2) The  persons  mentioned  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  allow  the  inspecting  authority  to have a reasonable access to the premises occupied by such special purpose distinct entity or by  any  other  person,  on  its  behalf  and  also  extend  reasonable  facility  for  examining  any books,  records,  documents,  computer  systems  and  computer  data  in  the  possession  of  the special purpose distinct entity or any such other person and also provide copies of documents or other material which in the opinion of the inspecting authority are relevant for the purposes of the inspection.
(3) The  inspecting  authority  shall  in  the  course  of  inspection,  be  entitled  to  examine  or record  statements  of  any  principal  officer,  director,  partner,  proprietor  and  employee  of  the special  purpose  distinct  entity  or  the  other  person  whose  records  or  other  documents  are being inspected.
(4) It shall be the duty of every director, proprietor, partner, officer, employee, servicer or other agent  of the special purpose distinct  entity or the other person whose records or other documents are being inspected to give to the inspecting authority all assistance in connection with  the inspection which the special purpose distinct  entity  may reasonably  be expected to give. Appointment of auditor or valuer.
43.  (1) The Board may appoint a qualified auditor to inspect the books of account or inquire into  the  affairs  of  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity,  servicer  or  other  agent  of  the  special purpose distinct entity in so far as it concerns its regulated activities: Provided that the auditor so appointed shall have the same powers of the inspecting authority as are mentioned in regulation 40 and the obligation of the special purpose distinct entity and its  employees  in  regulation  42  shall  be  applicable  to  the  investigation  under  this  regulation. have the meaning derived from section 226 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).
(2) The Board may appoint a valuer or direct  a valuer to  be appointed, if so required in the  interest  of  investors  in  a  scheme  for  the  purpose  of  proper  valuation  of  asset  pools acquired or held by a special purpose distinct entity.
(3) (2) shall be borne by the originator, trustee, or other person if so specified by the Board. Submission of report to the Board.
44. (1) The inspecting authority shall, as soon as may be possible, submit an inspection report to the Board.
(2) On submission of the inspection report, the Board may take such action thereon as it may deem fit and appropriate. The expenses of such audit under sub-regulation (1) or valuation under sub-regulation CHAPTER IX PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT Cancellation or suspension of registration.
45. (1) The registration granted under regulation 6 to a trustee who - (a) fails to comply with any conditions subject to which certificate has been granted; (b) contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act,  1992  (15  of  1992)  or  the  regulations  made  thereunder  –  may  be  cancelled  or suspended by the Board: Provided that no such registration shall be cancelled or suspended unless the trustee has been given an opportunity of being heard in the manner as applicable in respect of cancellation or suspension  of  registration  granted  to  any  intermediary  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange Board of India Act, 1992.
(2)  While passing an order of suspension or cancellation of  registration of a trustee, the Board  may  also  direct  winding  up  of  schemes  of  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  within such period and in such manner as may be directed. liquidation  of  the  asset  pool  and  repayment  of  the  proceeds  thereof  to  the  investors  in  the scheme.
(3) Notwithstanding  the  cancellation  of  certificate,  the  trustee  shall,  subject  to  such directions  as  the  Board  may  deem  appropriate,  ensure  compliance  of  the  Act,  these regulations, any circular issued thereunder and the listing agreement, until another registered trustee  is  appointed  in  his  place  or  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  winds  up  its  schemes and repays to the investors, whichever is earlier.
(4) Nothing  contained  in  this  regulation  shall  be  deemed  to  prejudice  the  operation  of sections 12A, 21A, 23, 23A, 23C, 23E, 23H and 23M of the Act, sections 11, 11B, 11D and 24 and Chapter VIA of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) and rule 19 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957. directing  the  recognised  stock  exchange  concerned  not  to  permit  trading  in  the Directions
46.  Without prejudice to  actions under the Act, the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act,  1992  (15  of  1992)  and  regulation  45,  the  Board  may  in  the  interest  of  the  securities market, in the interest of the investors or for the purpose of securing the proper management of  any  special  purpose  distinct  entity  or  trustee  (whether  registered  with  the  Board  or  not), pass, any or all of the following directions: (a) directing the originator or any other persons associated with securitisation or regulated activity  to  refund  any  money  collected  under  an  issue  to  the  investors  with  or  without requisite interest, as the case may be; (b) directing the persons associated with securitisation or regulated activity concerned not to  access the capital  market  or not  to  deal  in  securities or securitised debt  instruments for a particular period or not to engage in securitisation or regulated activities; (c) securitised debt instruments; (d) debt instruments; (e) the case: Provided  that  before  issuing  any  directions  the  Board  may  give  a  reasonable  opportunity  of being heard to the person concerned: Provided  further  that  if  any  interim  direction  is  required  to  be  passed,  the  Board  may  give post decisional hearing to such person. Appeal
47. A person aggrieved by an order of  the Board or Adjudicating Officer under the Act, the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act, 1992  (15  of  1992)  or  these  regulations  or refusal  of  listing  by  a  recognised  stock  exchange  may  prefer  an  appeal  to  the  Securities Appellate  Tribunal  in  accordance  with  section  23L  of  the  Act  read  with  the  Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Appeal to Securities Appellate Tribunal) Rules, 2000, or section 15T of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) read with the Securities Appellate Tribunal (Procedure) Rules, 2000. directing  the  recognised  stock  exchange  concerned  to  suspend  trading  in  securitised any other direction which the Board may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of 28[CHAPTER IX-A POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
47A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)  Any  exemption  granted  by  the  Board  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  subject  to  the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. testing  environment  where  new  products,  processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  may  be deployed on a limited set  of eligible customers for a specified period of time,  for furthering innovation  in  the  securities  market,  subject  to  such  conditions  as  may  be  specified  by  the Board.] CHAPTER X MISCELLANEOUS In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  application  or  interpretation  of  these Power of the Board to issue clarifications.
48. regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of circulars. Delegation of powers
49. The powers exercisable by the Board under these regulations shall also be exercisable by any  officer  of  the  Board  to  whom  such  powers  are  delegated  by  the  Board  by  means  of  an order made under section 19 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of
1992). Applicability of other Laws
3. (1) These regulations shall apply to delisting of equity shares of a company from all or any of the recognised stock exchanges where such shares are listed 9[:] 10[Provided  that  these  regulations  shall  not  apply  to  securities  listed  without making  a  public  issue,  on  the  institutional  trading  platform  of  a  recognised stock exchange.]
14.11.2018. 6 Words “acquirer and public shareholding” omitted ibid. and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  1997"  by  the  SEBI  (Delisting  of  Equity  shares)  (Amendment) include equity shares having superior voting rights.]
(2)  Nothing  in  these  regulations  shall  apply  to  any  delisting  made  pursuant  to  a scheme  sanctioned  by  the  Board  for  Industrial  and  Financial  Reconstruction  under the  Sick  Industrial  Companies  (Special  Provisions)  Act,  1985  or  by  the  National Company  Law  Tribunal  under  section  424D  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956,  if  such scheme – (a) lays down any specific procedure to complete the delisting; or (b) provides an exit option to the existing public shareholders at a specified rate.
12[(3)  Nothing  in  these  regulations  shall  apply  to  any  delisting  of  equity  shares of  a listed  entity  made  pursuant  to  a  resolution  plan  approved  under  section  31  of  the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 [No. 31 of 2016], if such plan, – (a) lays down any specific procedure to complete the delisting of such share; or (b) provides an exit option to the existing public shareholders at a price specified in the resolution plan: Provided  that,  exit  to  the  shareholders  should  be  at a  price  which  shall not  be  less than  the  liquidation  value  as  determined  under  regulation  35  of  the  Insolvency  and Bankruptcy  Board  of  India  (Insolvency  Resolution  Process  for  Corporate  Persons) Regulations,  2016  after  paying  off  dues  in  the  order  of  priority  as  defined  under section 53 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016[No. 31 of 2016]: Provided  further  that,  if  the  existing  promoters  or  any  other  shareholders  are proposed  to  be  provided  an  opportunity  to  exit  under  the  resolution  plan  at  a  price higher  than  the  price  determined  in  terms  of  the  above  proviso,  the  existing  public shareholders shall also be provided an exit opportunity at a price which shall not be less  than  the  price,  by  whatever  name  called,  at  which  such  promoters  or  other shareholders, directly or indirectly, are provided exit: Provided also that, the details of delisting of such shares along with the justification for  exit  price  in  respect  of  delisting  proposed  shall  be  disclosed  to  the  recognized stock exchanges within one day of resolution plan being approved under section 31 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (No. 31 of 2016)] Delisting not permissible in certain circumstances and conditions for delisting
4.  (1)  No  company  shall  apply  for  and  no  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  permit delisting of equity shares of a company,- (a) pursuant to a buyback of equity shares by the company; or (b) pursuant to a preferential allotment made by the company; or (c) unless a period of three years has elapsed since the listing of that class of equity shares on any recognised stock exchange; or (d)  if  any  instruments  issued  by  the  company,  which  are  convertible  into  the  same class of equity shares that are sought to be delisted, are outstanding. 13[(1A) No promoter or promoter group  shall propose delisting of equity shares of a company, if any entity belonging to the promoter or promoter group has sold equity shares of  the  company  during a  period  of  six  months  prior  to  the  date of  the  board meeting in which the delisting proposal was approved in terms of sub-regulation (1B) of regulation 8.]
(2) For  the  removal  of  doubts,  it  is  clarified  that  no  company  shall  apply  for  and no recognised stock exchange shall permit delisting of convertible securities.
(3)  Nothing  contained  in  clauses  (c)  and  (d)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  apply  to  a delisting of equity shares falling under clause (a) of regulation 6.
(4)  No  promoter  shall  directly  or  indirectly  employ  the  funds  of  the  company  to finance  an  exit  opportunity  provided  under  Chapter  IV  or  an  acquisition  of  shares made pursuant to sub regulation (3) of regulation 23.
(5)  No  14[acquirer    or    promoter        or    promoter    group    15[or  persons  acting  in concert] or  their  related entities] shall – (a)  employ  any  device,  scheme  or  artifice  to  defraud  any  shareholder  or  other person; or (b) engage in any transaction or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any shareholder or other person; or (c) engage in any act or practice that is fraudulent, deceptive or manipulative – in connection with any delisting sought or permitted or exit opportunity given or other acquisition of shares made under these regulations. CHAPTER III VOLUNTARY DELISTING Delisting from all recognised stock exchanges
5.  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  these  regulations,  a  company  may  delist  its  equity shares  from  all  the  recognised  stock  exchanges  where  they  are  listed  or  from  the only  recognised  stock  exchange  where  they  are  listed:  Provided  that  all  public shareholders holding equity shares of the class which are sought to be delisted are given an exit opportunity in accordance with Chapter IV. Delisting from only some of the recognised stock exchanges
6.  A  company  may  delist  its  equity  shares  from  one  or  more  recognised  stock exchanges  where  they  are  listed  and  continue  their  listing  on  one  or  more  other recognised  stock  exchanges,  subject  to  the  provisions  of  these  regulations  and subject to the following – (a) if after the proposed delisting from any one or more recognised stock exchanges, the equity shares would remain listed on any recognised stock exchange which has nationwide  trading  terminals,  no  exit  opportunity  needs  to  be  given  to  the  public shareholders; and, (b)  if  after  the  proposed  delisting,  the  equity  shares  16[do]  not  remain  listed  on  any recognised  stock  exchange  having  nationwide  trading  terminals,  exit  opportunity shall  be given  to  all  the public  shareholders holding  the  equity  shares  sought  to  be delisted in accordance with Chapter IV. nationwide  trading  terminals’  means  the  Bombay  Stock  Exchange  Limited,  the National  Stock  Exchange  of  India  Limited  or  any  other  recognised  stock  exchange which may be specified by the Board in this regard. Procedure for delisting where no exit opportunity is required
7. (1) In a case falling under clause (a) of regulation 6 – (a) the proposed delisting shall be approved by a resolution of the board of directors of the company in its meeting; (b)  the  company  shall  give  a  public  notice  of  the  proposed  delisting  in  at  least  one English  national  daily  with  wide  circulation,  one  Hindi  national  daily  with  wide circulation and one regional language newspaper of the region where the concerned recognised stock exchanges are located; (c)  the  company  shall  make  an  application  to  the  concerned    recognised  stock exchange for delisting its equity shares; and (d)  the  fact  of  delisting  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  first  annual  report  of  the  company prepared after the delisting.
(2) The  public  notice  made  under  clause  (b) of  sub-regulation (1)  shall mention  the names  of  the  recognised  stock  exchanges  from  which  the  equity  shares  of  the company  are  intended  to  be  delisted,  the  reasons  for  such  delisting  and  the  fact  of continuation  of  listing  of  equity  shares  on  recognised  stock  exchange  having nationwide trading terminals.
(3)  An  application  for  delisting  made under  clause  (c)  of  sub  regulation  (1)  shall be disposed  of  by  the  recognised  stock  exchange  within  a  period  not  exceeding  thirty working days from the date of receipt of such application complete in all respects. Conditions and procedure for delisting where exit opportunity is required
8.  (1)  Any  company  desirous  of  delisting  its  equity  shares  under  the  provisions  of Chapter III shall, except in a case falling under clause (a) of regulation 6, - (a) obtain the prior approval of the board of directors of the company in its meeting; (b)  obtain  the  prior  approval  of  shareholders  of  the  company  by  special  resolution passed through postal ballot, after disclosure of all material facts in the explanatory statement sent to the shareholders in relation to such resolution: 7 Provided that the special resolution shall be acted upon  17[***] only if the votes cast by  public  shareholders  in  favour  of  the  proposal  amount  to  at  least  two  times  the number of votes cast by public shareholders against it. (c) make an application to the concerned recognised stock exchange for in-principle approval  of  the  proposed  delisting  in  the  form  specified  by  the  recognised  stock exchange; and (d) within one year of passing the special resolution, make the final application to the concerned recognised stock exchange in the form specified by the recognised stock exchange:  Provided  that  in  pursuance  of  special  resolution  as  referred  to  in  clause (b), passed before the commencement of these regulations, final application shall be made within a period of one year from the date of passing of special resolution or six months from the commencement of these regulations, whichever is later. 18 [(1A)     Prior to granting approval under clause (a) of sub-regulation (1), the board of directors of the company shall,- (i) make a disclosure to the recognized stock exchanges on which the equity shares of  the  company  are  listed  that  the  promoters/acquirers  have  proposed  to  delist  the company; (ii)  appoint    a    merchant    banker    to    carry    out    due-diligence    and    make    a disclosure  to  this  effect  to  the  recognized  stock  exchanges  on  which  the  equity shares of the company are listed; (iii) obtain details of trading in shares of the company for a period of two years prior to  the  date of  board  meeting  by  top  twenty  five  shareholders  as  on  the  date  of  the board  meeting  convened  to  consider  the  proposal  for  delisting,  from  the  stock exchanges and details of off-market transactions of such shareholders for a period of two  years  and  furnish  the  information  to  the  merchant  banker  for  carrying  out  due- diligence; (iv)  obtain  further  details  in  terms  of  sub-regulation  (1D)  of  regulation  8  and  furnish the information to the merchant banker. (1B)  The  board  of  directors  of  the  company  while  approving  the  proposal  for delisting shall certify that : (i)  the    company   is    in    compliance   with    the    applicable    provisions   of  securities laws; (ii)  the  acquirer  or  promoter    or  promoter  group  or  their  related  entities,  are  in compliance with sub-regulation (5) of regulation 4; (iii)  the delisting is in the interest of the shareholders. (1C)  For  certification    in  respect  of  matters  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1B),  the board of directors of the company shall take into account the report of the merchant banker as specified in sub-regulation (1E) of regulation 8. (1D) The merchant banker appointed by the board of directors of the company under clause (ii) of sub-regulation (1A) shall carry out due-diligence upon obtaining details from the board  of  directors  of  the  company  in  terms  of  clause  (iii) of  sub-regulation (1A) of regulation 8 Provided  that  if  the  merchant  banker  is  of  the  opinion  that  details  referred  to  in clause (iii) of sub-regulation (1A) of regulation 8 are not sufficient for certification in terms  of  sub-regulation    (1E) of  regulation  8,  he  shall  obtain  additional  details  from the board of directors of the company for such longer period as he may deem fit. (1E) Upon carrying out due-diligence as specified in terms of sub-regulation (1D) of regulation 8,  the merchant  banker  shall  submit  a  report  to  the  board  of directors  of the company certifying the following: (a)  the  trading  carried  out  by  19[any  of  the  acquirer  or  promoter  or  promoter  group entity] or   their   related   entities   was   in compliance or not, with the applicable provisions of the securities laws; and 20[(b)  any  of  the  acquirer  or  promoter  or  promoter  group  entity  or persons  acting  in concert or their related entities have carried out or not any transaction to facilitate the success  of  the  delisting  offer  which  is  in  contravention  of  the  provisions  of  sub- regulation (5) of regulation 4.]]
(2) An application seeking in-principle approval for delisting under clause (c) of sub- regulation (1) shall be accompanied by an audit report as required under regulation 55A  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Depositories  and  Participants) Regulations, 1996  in  respect  of  the  equity  shares  sought  to  be delisted,  covering  a period of six months prior to the date of the application.
(3) An application seeking in-principle approval for delisting shall be disposed of by the  recognised  stock  exchange  within  a  period  not  exceeding  21[five]  working  days from the date of receipt of such application complete in all respects.
(4)  While  considering  an  application  seeking  in-principle  approval  for  delisting,  the recognised  stock  exchange  shall  not  unfairly  withhold  such  application,  but  may require the company to satisfy it as to - (a) compliance with clause (b) of sub-regulation (1); (b) the resolution of investor grievances by the company; (c) payment of listing fees to that recognised stock exchange; (d)  the  compliance  with  any  condition  of  the  22[Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015] with that recognised  stock  exchange  having  a  material  bearing  on  the  interests  of  its  equity shareholders; (e) any litigation or action pending against the company pertaining to its activities in the securities market or any other matter having a material bearing on the interests of its equity shareholders; (f)  any  other  relevant  matter  as  the  recognised  stock  exchange  may  deem  fit  to verify.
(5) A final application for delisting made under clause  (d) of sub regulation  (1) shall be accompanied with such proof of having given the exit opportunity in accordance with the provisions of Chapter IV, as the recognised stock exchange may require. CHAPTER IV EXIT OPPORTUNITY Applicability of Chapter IV
9.  The  provisions  of  this  Chapter  shall  apply  to  any  delisting  sought  to  be  made under regulation 5 or under clause (b) of regulation 6. Public announcement
10. (1) The 23[acquirers or] promoters of the company shall 24[within one working day from  the  date  of]  receipt  of  in  principle  approval  for  delisting  from  the  recognised stock exchange, make a public announcement in at least one English national daily with wide circulation, one Hindi national daily with wide circulation and one regional language newspaper of the region where the concerned recognised stock exchange is located.
(2)  The  public  announcement  shall  contain  all  material  information  including  the information  specified  in  Schedule  I  and  shall  not  contain  any  false  or  misleading statement.
(3)  The  public  announcement  shall  also  specify  a  date,  being  a  day  not  later  than 25[one  working  day]  from  the  date  of  the  public  announcement,  which  shall  be  the ‘specified date’ for determining the names of shareholders to whom the letter of offer shall be sent.
(4)  Before  making  the  public  announcement,  the  26[acquirer  or]  promoter  shall appoint a merchant banker registered with the Board and such other intermediaries as are considered necessary. company may also act as the manager to the delisting offer.]
(5) It shall be the responsibility of the 28[acquirer/promoter] and the merchant banker to ensure compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.
(6)  No  29[acquirer/promoter]  shall  appoint  any  person  as  a  merchant  banker  under sub-regulation (4) if such a person is an associate of the 30[acquirer/promoter].
31[(7)  No  entity  belonging  to  the  acquirer,  promoter  and  promoter  group  of  the company  shall  sell  shares  of  the  company  during  the  period  from  the  date  of  the board meeting in which the delisting proposal was approved till the completion of the delisting process.] Escrow account
11. (1) Before making the public announcement under regulation 10, the  32[acquirer or]  promoter  shall  open  an  escrow  account  and  deposit  therein  the  total  estimated amount of consideration calculated on the basis of floor price and number of equity shares outstanding with public shareholders.
(2)  On  determination  of  final  price  and  making  of  public  announcement  under regulation  18  accepting  the  final  price,  the  33[acquirer  or]  promoter  shall  forthwith deposit in the escrow account such additional sum as may be sufficient to make up the  entire  sum  due  and  payable  as  consideration  in  respect  of  equity  shares outstanding with public shareholders.
(3)  The  escrow  account  shall  consist  of  either  cash  deposited  with  a  scheduled commercial  bank,  or  a  bank  guarantee  in  favour  of  the  merchant  banker,  or  a combination of both. an  interest  bearing  account,  provided  that  the  merchant  banker  ensures  that  the funds are available at the time of making payment to shareholders.]
(4)  Where  the  escrow  account  consists  of  deposit  with  a  scheduled  commercial bank, the promoter shall, while opening the account, empower the merchant banker to instruct the bank to issue banker’s cheques or demand drafts for the amount lying to the credit of the escrow account, for the purposes mentioned in these regulations, and the amount in such deposit, if any, remaining after full payment of consideration for equity shares tendered in the offer and those  tendered  under  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  21  shall  be  released  to  the promoter.
(5) Where the escrow account consists of a bank guarantee, such bank guarantee shall  be  valid  till  payments  are  made  in  respect  of  all  shares  tendered  under  sub- regulation (1) of regulation 21.
2015. 32 Ibid 33 Ibid
14.11.2018. 12 Letter of offer
12.  (1)  The  35[acquirer  or]  promoter  shall  despatch  the  letter  of  offer  to  the  public shareholders  of  equity  shares,  not  later  than  36[two]  working  days  from  the  date  of the public announcement 37[***].
(2) The letter of offer shall be sent to all public shareholders holding equity shares of the class sought to be delisted whose names appear on the register of the company or  depository  as  on  the  date  specified  in  the  public  announcement  under  sub- regulation (3) of regulation 10.
(3)  The  letter  of  offer  shall  contain  all  the  disclosures  made  in  the  public announcement  and  such  other  disclosures  as  may  be  necessary for the shareholders to take an informed decision.
(4)  The  letter  of  offer  shall  be  accompanied  with  a  bidding  form  for  use  of  public shareholders  and  a  form  to  be  used  by  them  for  tendering  shares  under  sub- regulation (1) of regulation 21. and make bids even if he does not receive the bidding form or the tender offer /offer form and such shareholder may tender shares in the manner specified by the Board in this regard.] Bidding period
13. (1) The date of opening of the offer shall not be later than 39[seven] working days from the date of the public announcement. 40[(1A)  The  acquirer  or  promoter  shall  facilitate  tendering  of  shares  by  the shareholders  and  settlement  of  the  same,  through  the  stock  exchange  mechanism as specified by the Board.]
(2) The offer shall remain open for a 41[***] period of five working days, during which the public shareholders may tender their bids. Right of shareholders to participate in the book building process
14.  (1)  All  public  shareholders of  the  equity shares  which  are  sought to  be  delisted shall be entitled to participate in the book building process in the manner specified in Schedule II.
(2)  42[An  acquirer  or  promoter]  or  a  person  acting  in  concert  with  any  of  the promoters  shall  not  make  a  bid  in  the  offer  and  the  merchant  banker  shall  take necessary steps to ensure compliance with this sub-regulation.
(3)  Any  holder  of  depository  receipts  issued on  the basis  of  underlying  shares held by a custodian and any such custodian shall not be entitled to participate in the offer: 43[Provided that any holder of depository receipts shall be allowed to participate in the book building process under sub-regulation (1) after exchanging such depository receipts with the shares of the class that are proposed to be delisted.] 44[***] Offer price
15.  (1)  The  offer  price  shall  be  determined  through  book  building  in  the  manner specified  in  Schedule  II,  after  fixation  of  floor  price  under  sub-regulation  (2)  and disclosure of the same in the public announcement and the letter of offer.
45[(2)  The  floor  price  shall  be  determined  in  terms  of  regulation  8  of  Securities  and Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, as may be applicable.] which  the  recognized  stock  exchange/s  were  required  to  be  notified  of  the  board meeting in which the delisting proposal would be considered.]
(3) 47[***] 48[Right of the promoter to either make a counter offer or reject the offer]
16. (1) The 49[acquirer or] promoter shall not be bound to accept the equity shares at the offer price determined by the book building process. 50[(1A)  If  the  price  discovered  in  terms  of  regulation  15  is  not  acceptable  to  the acquirer or the promoter, the acquirer or the promoter may make a counter offer to the  public  shareholders  within  two  working  days  of  the  price  discovered  under regulation 15, in the manner specified by the Board from time to time: Provided  that  the  counter  offer  price  shall  not  be  less  than  the  book  value  of  the company as certified by the merchant banker.]
(2)  Where  the  51[acquirer  or]  promoter  decides  not  to  accept  the  offer  price  so determined,- (a) the 52[acquirer or] promoter shall not acquire any equity shares tendered pursuant to the offer and the equity shares deposited or pledged by a shareholder pursuant to 53[clauses]  7  or  9  of  Schedule  II  shall  be  returned  or  released  to  him  within  ten working days of closure of the bidding period; (b) the company shall not make the final application to the exchange for delisting of the equity shares; (c)  the  54[acquirer  or]  promoter  may  close  the  escrow  account  opened  under regulation 11; and, (d)55[***]
(3) 56[***] Minimum number of equity shares to be acquired
57[17.58[(1)]59[**]60[If a counter offer has not been made by the acquirer or promoter in accordance with regulation 16(1A), an] offer made under chapter III shall be deemed to be successful only if,- (a)  the  post  offer  promoter  shareholding  (along  with  the  persons  acting  in  concert with  the  promoter)  taken  together  with  the  shares  accepted  through  eligible bids  at the  final  price  determined  as  per  Schedule  II,  reaches  ninety  per  cent.  of  the  total issued shares of that class excluding the shares which are held by a custodian and against which depository receipts have been issued overseas; and (b)  at  least  twenty  five  per  cent  of  the  public  shareholders  holding  shares  in  the demat mode as on date of the board meeting referred to  in  sub-regulation (1B) of regulation 8  had participated in the Book Building Process: Provided that  61[the requirement under clause (b) of sub-regulation (1)] shall not be applicable to cases where the acquirer and the merchant banker demonstrate to the stock  exchanges  that  they  have  delivered  the  letter  of  offer  to  all  the  public shareholders either through registered post or speed post or courier or hand delivery with proof of delivery or through email  as  a  text  or  as  an  attachment  to  email  or as  a  notification  providing electronic link  or Uniform Resource Locator including a read receipt. a. If  the  acquirer  or  the  merchant  banker  send  the  letters  of  offer  to  all  the shareholders  by  registered  post  or  speed  post  through  India  Post  and  is  able  to provide  a  detailed  account  regarding  the  status  of  delivery  of  the  letters  of  offer (whether delivered or not) sent through India Post, the same would be considered as a deemed compliance with the proviso. b. If the acquirer or the merchant banker is unable to deliver the letter of offer to certain  shareholders  by  modes  other  than  speed  post  or  registered  post  of  India Post, efforts should be made to deliver the letters of offer to them by speed post or registered  post  through  India  Post.    In  that  case,  a  detailed  account  regarding  the status of delivery of letter of offer (whether delivered or not) provided from India Post would also be considered as deemed compliance with the proviso.] 5A of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011,  the  threshold  limit  of  ninety  per  cent.  for  successful delisting  offer  shall  be  calculated  taking  into account  the  post  offer  shareholding  of the  acquirer  taken  together  with  the  existing  shareholding,  shares  to  be  acquired which attracted the obligation to make an open offer and  shares accepted through eligible bids at the final price determined as per Schedule II.]
64[(2)  If  a  counter  offer  has  been  made  by  the  acquirer  or  promoter  in  accordance with  regulation  16(1A),  an  offer  made  under  chapter  III  shall  be  deemed  to  be successful only if the post offer promoter shareholding (along with the persons acting in concert with the promoter) taken together with the shares accepted at the counter offer price reaches ninety per cent. of the total issued shares of that class excluding the shares which are held by a custodian and against which depository receipts have been issued overseas.] Procedure after closure of offer 63 Numbered ibid.
14.11.2018. 17
18.  Within 65[five]  working  days  of 66[the]  closure  of the  offer, the 67[promoter/acquirer] and the merchant banker shall make a public announcement in the same newspapers in which the public announcement under sub - regulation  (1) of regulation 10 was made regarding:- (i)  the  success  of  the  offer  in  terms  of  regulation  17  Along  with  the  final  price accepted by the acquirer; or (ii) the failure of the offer in terms of regulation 19; or 68[***] Failure of offer
19.  (1)  Where  the  offer  is  rejected  under  regulation  16  or  is  not  successful  as  per regulation 17, the offer shall be deemed to have failed and no equity shares shall be acquired pursuant to such offer.
(2) Where the offer fails – (a) the equity shares deposited or pledged by a shareholder under paragraphs 7 or 9 of Schedule II shall be returned or released to him within ten working days from the end of the bidding period; 69[Provided that the acquirer shall not be required to return the shares if the offer is made  pursuant  to  regulation  5A  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.] (b)  no  final  application  shall  be  made  to  the  exchange  for  delisting  of  the  equity shares; and (c) the escrow account opened under regulation 11 shall be closed. Payment of consideration and return of equity shares
20. (1) The promoter shall immediately  70[upon] success of the offer, open a special account with a banker to an issue registered with the Board and transfer thereto, the entire amount due and payable as consideration in respect of equity shares tendered in the offer, from the escrow account.
(2) All the shareholders whose equity shares are verified to be genuine shall be paid the  final  price  stated  in the public  announcement   within  ten  working days  from  the closure of the offer.
(3) The equity shares deposited or pledged by a shareholder pursuant to paragraphs 7  or  9  of  Schedule  II  shall  be  returned  or  released  to  him,  within  ten  working  days from  the  closure  of  the  offer,  in  cases  where  the  bids  pertaining  thereto  have  not been accepted. Right of remaining shareholders to tender equity shares
21.  (1)  Where, pursuant  to acceptance  of  equity  shares  tendered  in  terms  of  these regulations, the equity shares are delisted, any remaining public shareholder holding such  equity  shares  may  tender  his  shares  to  the  promoter  upto  a  period  of 71[minimum]  one  year  from  the  date  of  delisting  and,  in  such  a  case,  the  promoter shall  accept  the  shares  tendered  at  the  same  final  price  at  which  the  earlier acceptance of shares was made.
(2) The payment of consideration for shares accepted under sub-regulation (1) shall be made out of the balance amount lying in the escrow account.
(3) The amount in the escrow account or the bank guarantee shall not be released to the promoter unless all payments are made in respect of shares tendered under sub- regulation (1). CHAPTER V COMPULSORY DELISTING Compulsory delisting by a stock exchange
22.  (1)  A  recognised  stock  exchange  may,  by  order,  delist  any  equity  shares  of  a company  on  any  ground  prescribed  in  the  rules  made  under  section  21A  of  the Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  (42  of  1956):  Provided  that  no  order shall  be  made  under  this  sub  regulation  unless  the  company  concerned  has  been given a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(2)  The  decision  regarding  compulsory  delisting  shall  be  taken  by  a  panel  to  be constituted by the recognised stock exchange consisting of – (a) two directors of the recognised stock exchange (one of whom shall be a public representative); (b) one representative of the investors; (c) one representative of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs or Registrar of Companies; and (d) the Executive Director or Secretary of the recognised stock exchange.
(3)  Before  72[passing]  an  order  under  sub-regulation  (1),  the  recognised  stock exchange  shall  give a  notice  in  one  English national  daily  with  wide  circulation  and one  regional  language  newspaper  of  the  region  where  the  concerned  recognised stock exchange is located, of the proposed delisting, giving a time period of not less than fifteen working days from the notice, within which representations may be made to  the  recognised  stock  exchange  by  any  person  who  may  be  aggrieved  by  the proposed  delisting  and  shall  also  display  such  notice  on  its  trading  systems  and website.
(4)  The  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  while  passing  any  order  under  sub- regulation  (1),  consider  the  representations,  if  any,  made  by  the  company  as  also any representations received in response to the notice given under sub regulation (3) and shall comply with the criteria specified in Schedule III.
(5)  The  provisions  of  Chapter  IV  shall  not  be  applicable  to  a  compulsory  delisting made by a recognised stock exchange under this Chapter.
(6) Where the recognised stock exchange passes an order under sub-regulation (1), it shall, - (a)  forthwith  publish  a  notice  in  one  English national  daily  with  wide  circulation  and one  regional  language  newspaper  of  the  region  where  the  concerned  recognised stock exchange is located, of the fact of such delisting, disclosing therein the name and address of the company, the fair value of the delisted equity shares determined under  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  23  and  the  names  and  addresses  of  the promoters of the company who would be liable under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 23; and (b)  inform  all  other  stock  exchanges  where  the  equity  shares  of  the  company  are listed, about such delisting 73[***]. Rights of public shareholders in case of a compulsory delisting
23.  74[(1)] The recognised stock exchange shall form a panel of expert valuers from whom the valuer or valuers shall be appointed for purposes of 75[sub-regulation (2)]. 76[2] Where equity shares of a company are delisted by a recognised stock exchange under  this  Chapter,  the  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  appoint  an  independent valuer or valuers who shall determine the fair value of the delisted equity shares. (3)The promoter of the company shall acquire delisted equity shares from the public shareholders  by  paying  them  the  value  determined  by  the  valuer  77[within  three months of the date of delisting from the recognised stock exchange], subject to their (a) ‘valuer’ means a chartered accountant within the meaning of clause (b) of section 2  of  the  Chartered  Accountants  Act,  1949  (38  of  1949),  who  has  undergone  peer review  as  specified  by  the  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of  India  constituted under  that  Act,  or  a  merchant  banker  appointed  to  determine  the  value  of  the delisted equity shares; (b)  value  of  the  delisted  equity  shares  shall  be  determined  by  the  valuer  having regard to the factors mentioned in regulation 15. Consequences of compulsory delisting
24.  78[(1)]Where a company has been compulsorily delisted under this Chapter, the company,  its  whole  time  directors,  its  promoters  and  the  companies  which  are promoted by any of them shall not directly or indirectly access the securities market or seek listing for any equity shares for a period of ten years from the date of such delisting.
79[(2)   In case of such companies whose fair value is positive - (a) such a company and the depositories shall not effect transfer, by way of sale, pledge, etc., of any of the equity shares held by the promoters/ promoter group and the  corporate  benefits  like  dividend,  rights,  bonus  shares,  split,  etc.  shall  be  frozen for all the equity shares held by the promoters/ promoter group, till the promoters of such  company  provide  an exit  option  to  the public  shareholders  in  compliance  with sub-regulation  (3)  of  regulation  23,  as  certified  by  the  concerned  recognized  stock exchange; (b) the promoters and whole-time directors of the compulsorily delisted company shall also not be eligible to become directors of any listed company till the exit option as stated in clause (a) above is provided.] CHAPTER VI POWERS OF THE BOARD Power of the Board to issue clarifications
25.  In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  application  or  interpretation  of  these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines 80[from time to time]. 81[Power to relax strict enforcement of the regulations.
25A.  (1) The  Board  may  for  reasons  recorded  in  writing,  grant  relaxation  from strict  enforcement  of  any  of  the  requirements  of  these  regulations,  if  the  Board  is satisfied  that  the  relaxation  is  in  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  the securities market.
(2) For seeking exemption under sub-regulation (1), the promoter or the acquirer or the company shall file an application with the Board, supported by  a  duly  sworn affidavit,  giving  details  for  seeking  such  exemption  and  the  grounds  on  which  the exemption has been sought.
(3) The  promoter  or  the  acquirer  or  the  company,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall along with the application referred to under 82[sub-regulation (2)] pay a non- refundable fee of  rupees  fifty  thousand,  83[by  way  of  direct  credit  in  the  bank  account  through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS  or  any  other  mode  allowed  by  RBI  or]  by  way  of  a  banker’s cheque or demand draft payable in Mumbai in favour of the Board.
(4)  The  Board  may  after  affording  reasonable  opportunity  of  being  heard  to  the applicant      and      after      considering      all  the  relevant  facts      and  circumstances, pass a reasoned order either granting or rejecting the exemption or relaxation sought as expeditiously as possible.] Directions by the Board
26. Without prejudice to provisions of the Act and those of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), the Board may in case of any violation of these regulations and in the interests of the investors and the securities market give such directions as it deems fit. 84[***] CHAPTER VII SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR SMALL COMPANIES AND DELISTING BY OPERATION OF LAW Special provisions in case of small companies
27.  85[(1)  Equity    shares    of    a    company    may    be    delisted    from    all    the recognised stock exchanges where they are listed, without following the procedure in Chapter IV, if,- a)   the company has a paid up capital not exceeding ten crore rupees and net worth not  exceeding  twenty  five  crore  rupees  as  on  the  last  date  of  preceding  financial year; b)  86[the number of equity shares of the company traded on each such recognised stock exchange during the twelve calendar months immediately preceding the date of  board  meeting  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1B)  of  regulation  8  is  less  than  ten per cent of the total number of shares of such company: Provided  that  where  the  share  capital  of  a  particular  class  of  shares  of  the company  is  not  identical  throughout  such  period,  the  weighted  average  of  the shares  of  such  class  shall  represent  the  total  number  of  shares  of  such  class  of shares of the company; and] c)  the company has not been suspended by any of the recognised stock exchanges having  nation-wide  trading  terminals  for  any  non-compliance in the  preceding one year; ]
(2) 87[***]
(3) A delisting of equity shares may be made under sub regulation (1)  88[***] only if, in  addition  to  fulfilment  of  the requirements  of  regulation  8,  the  following  conditions are fulfilled:- (a)  the  promoter  appoints  a  merchant  banker  and  decides  an  exit  price  in consultation with him; (b) 89[the exit price offered to the public shareholders shall not be less than the floor price determined in terms of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 15 of these regulations read  with  clause  (e)  of  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  8  of  the  Securities  and Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;[ (c)  the  promoter  writes  individually  to  all  public  shareholders  in  the  company informing  them  of  his  intention  to  get  the  equity  shares  delisted,  indicating  the  exit price  together  with  then  justification  therefore  and  seeking  their  consent  for  the proposal for delisting; (d) 90[the public shareholders, irrespective of their numbers, holding ninety percent or more  of  the  public  shareholding  give  their  consent]  in  writing  to  the  proposal  for delisting, and have consented either to sell their equity shares at the price offered by the promoter or to remain holders of the equity shares even if they are delisted; (e)  the  promoter  completes  the  process  of  inviting  the  positive  consent  and finalisation  of  the  proposal  for  delisting  of  equity  shares  within  seventy  five  working days of the first communication made under clause (c); (f) the promoter makes payment of consideration in cash within fifteen working days from the date of expiry of seventy five working days stipulated in clause (e).
(4)  The  communication  made  to  the  public  shareholders  under  clause  (c)  of  sub- regulation (3) shall contain justification for the offer price with particular reference to the  applicable  parameters  mentioned  in  regulation  15  and  specifically  mention  that consent  for  the  proposal  would  include  consent  for  dispensing  with  the  exit  price discovery through book building method.
(5)  The  concerned  recognised  stock  exchange  may  delist  such  equity  shares  upon satisfying itself of compliance with this regulation. Delisting in case of winding up, derecognition, etc
28.  (1)  In  case  of  winding  up  proceedings  of  a  company  whose  equity  shares  are listed on a recognised stock exchange, the rights, if any, of the shareholders of such company shall be in accordance with the laws applicable to those proceedings.
(2)  Where  the  Board  withdraws recognition  granted  to  a  stock  exchange  or  refuses renewal  of  recognition  to  it,  the  Board  may,  in  the  interest  of  investors  pass appropriate order in respect of the status of equity shares of the companies listed on that exchange. 91[CHAPTER VII-A POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
28A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but  not  exceeding  twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects relating  to  testing  new  products,  processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  in  live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. live testing environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board.] CHAPTER VIII MISCELLANEOUS Recognised stock exchanges to monitor compliance
29.  The  respective  recognised  stock  exchanges  shall  comply  with  and  monitor compliance with the provisions of these regulations and shall report to the Board any instance of non-compliance which comes to their notice. Listing of delisted equity shares
30. (1) No application for listing shall be made in respect of any equity shares, (a)  which  have  been  delisted  under  Chapter  III  or  under  Chapter  VII  (except regulation 27), for a period of five years from the delisting; (b)  which  have  been  delisted  under  Chapter  V,  for  a  period  of  ten  years  from  the delisting.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), an application for listing of delisted equity shares may be made where a recommendation in this regard has 26 been made by the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction under the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985. 92[(2A)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  an  application  for listing  of  delisted  equity  shares  may  be  made  in  respect  of  a  company  which  has undergone  corporate  insolvency  resolution  process  under  the  Insolvency  and Bankruptcy Code, 201([No. 31 of 2016)]
(3) While considering an application for listing of any equity shares which had been delisted  the  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  have  due  regard  to  facts  and circumstances under which delisting was made.
(4)  An  application  for  listing  made  in  respect  of  delisted  equity  shares  shall  be deemed  to  be  an  application  for  fresh  listing  of  such  equity  shares  and  shall  be subject to provisions of law relating to listing of equity shares of unlisted companies. 93[Repeal and Savings]
31.  (1)  Anything  done  or  omitted  to  be  done  or  any  right,  privilege,  obligation  or liability  acquired  or  accrued  or  incurred  under  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of India (Delisting of Securities) Guidelines, 2003 prior to the commencement of these regulations shall be governed by said guidelines.
94[(2)  Any  proposal  for  delisting  made  by  company  or  any  promoter  or  acquirer who  wanted    to    delist    securities   of   the    company,   prior    to    commencement   of these regulations  and  where  the  offer  price  has  not  been  determined  in  terms  of sub- regulation  (1)  of  regulation  15  as  on  the  date  of  such  commencement,  shall be proceeded  with  under  the  95[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009, as amended from time to time].
4. (1) Any issuer offering specified securities through a public issue or rights issue shall satisfy the conditions of this Chapter at the time of filing draft offer document with the Board (unless stated otherwise in this Chapter) and at the time of registering or filing the final offer document with the Registrar of Companies or designated stock exchange, as the case may be.
(2) No issuer shall make a public issue or rights issue of specified securities: (a) (b) if the issuer, any of its promoters, promoter group or directors or persons in control of the issuer are debarred from accessing the capital market by the Board; if  any  of  the  promoters,  directors  or  persons  in  control  of  the  issuer  was  or  also  is  a promoter,  director  or  person  in  control  of  any  other  company  which  is  debarred  from accessing the capital market under any order or directions made by the Board; 22[***] (c) (d)  unless it has made an application to one or more recognised stock exchanges for listing of specified securities on such stock exchanges and has chosen one of them as the designated stock exchange: Provided  that  in  case  of  an  initial  public  offer,  the  issuer  shall  make  an  application  for listing  of  the  specified  securities  in  at  least  one  recognised  stock  exchange  having nationwide trading terminals; (e)  unless it has entered into an agreement with a depository for dematerialisation of specified securities already issued or proposed to be issued; (f)  unless all existing partly paid-up equity shares of the issuer have either been fully paid up or forfeited; (g)  unless  firm  arrangements  of  finance  through  verifiable  means  towards  seventy  five  per cent.  of  the  stated  means  of  finance,  excluding  the  amount  to  be  raised  through  the proposed  public  issue  or  rights  issue  or  through  existing  identifiable  internal  accruals, have been made.
23[(3) Warrants may be issued along with public issue or rights issue of specified securities subject to the following: (a)  the  tenure  of  such  warrants  shall  not  exceed  24[eighteen]  months  from  their  date  of allotment in the public/rights issue; (b) not more than one warrant shall be attached to one specified security 25[;] ] (c)  26[the price or conversion formula of the warrants shall be determined upfront and at least 25% of the consideration amount shall also be received upfront; (d) in case the warrant holder does not exercise the option to take equity shares against any of the  warrants  held  by  him,  the  consideration  paid  in  respect  of  such  warrant  shall  be forfeited by the issuer.]
27[(4) The amount for general corporate purposes, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the draft offer  document  filed  with  the  Board,  shall  not  exceed  twenty  five  per  cent  of  the  amount raised by the issuer by issuance of specified securities.]
28[(5) No issuer shall make, (a)    a  public  issue  of  equity  securities,  if  the  issuer  or  any  of  its  promoters  or  directors  is  a wilful defaulter; or (b)   a public issue of convertible debt instruments if, (i)  the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a wilful defaulter, or (ii) it is in default of payment of interest or repayment of principal amount in respect of debt  instruments  issued  by  it  to  the  public,  if  any,  for  a  period  of  more  than  six months.
(6) An issuer making a rights issue of specified securities, shall make disclosures as specified in Part G of Schedule VIII, in the offer document and abridged letter of offer, if the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a wilful defaulter.
(7)  In  case  of  a  rights  issue  of  specified  securities  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (6)  above,  the promoters  or  promoter  group  of  the  issuer,  shall  not  renounce  their  rights  except  to  the extent of renunciation within the promoter group.] Appointment of merchant banker and other intermediaries.
5. (1) The issuer shall appoint one or more merchant bankers, at least one of whom shall be a lead merchant banker and shall also appoint other intermediaries, in consultation with the lead merchant banker, to carry out the obligations relating to the issue.
(2) The  issuer  shall,  in  consultation  with  the  lead  merchant  banker,  appoint  only  those intermediaries which are registered with the Board.
(3) Where  the  issue  is  managed  by  more  than  one  merchant  banker,  the  rights,  obligations  and responsibilities, relating inter alia to disclosures, allotment, refund and underwriting obligations, if any,  of  each  merchant  banker  shall  be  predetermined  and  disclosed  in  the  offer  document  as specified in Schedule I29[:] 30[Provided  that  where  any  of  the  merchant  bankers  is  an  associate  of  the  issuer,  it  shall  declare itself as a marketing lead manager and its role shall be limited to marketing of the issue.]
(4) The  lead  merchant  banker  shall,  only  after  independently  assessing  the  capability  of  other intermediaries to carry out their obligations, advise the issuer on their appointment.
(5) The issuer shall enter into an agreement with the lead merchant banker in the format specified in Schedule II and with other intermediaries as required under the respective regulations applicable to the intermediary concerned: Provided that such agreements may include such other clauses as the issuer and the intermediary may  deem  fit  without  diminishing  or  limiting  in  any  way  the  liabilities  and  obligations  of  the merchant bankers, other intermediaries and the issuer under the Act, the Companies Act, 1956, the Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956,  the  Depositories  Act,  1996  and  the  rules  and regulations made thereunder or any statutory modification or statutory enactment thereof: Provided  further  that  in  case  of  ASBA  process,  the  issuer  shall  take  cognisance  of  the  deemed agreement of the issuer with Self Certified Syndicate Banks.
(6) An issuer shall, in case of an issue made through the book building process, appoint syndicate members and in  the case of  any other issue, appoint bankers to  issue,  at  all mandatory  collection centres as specified in Schedule III and such other collection centres as it may deem fit.
(7) The issuer shall appoint a registrar which has connectivity with all the depositories: Provided  that  if  issuer  itself  is  a  registrar  to  an  issue  registered  with  the  Board,  then  another registrar to an issue shall be appointed as registrar to the issue: Provided further that the lead merchant banker shall not act as a registrar to the issue in which it is also handling the post issue responsibilities. banker appointed by the issuer shall act as the lead book runner. Filing of offer document.
6. (1) No issuer shall make, (a)  a public issue; or (b)  a rights issue, where the aggregate value of the specified securities offered is fifty lakh rupees or more, unless  a  draft  offer  document,  along  with  fees  as  specified  in  Schedule  IV,  has  been  filed with the Board through the lead merchant banker, at least thirty days prior to registering the prospectus,  red  herring  prospectus  or  shelf  prospectus  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies  or filing the letter of offer with the designated stock exchange, as the case may be.
(2) The  Board  may  specify  changes  or  issue  observations,  if  any,  on  the  draft  offer  document within thirty days from the later of the following dates: (a) (b) (c) (d) the date of receipt of the draft offer document under sub-regulation (1); or the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the lead merchant bankers, where the Board has sought any clarification or additional information from them; or the date of receipt of clarification or information from any regulator or agency, where the Board has sought any clarification or  information from such regulator or agency; or the date of receipt of a copy of in-principle approval letter issued by the recognised stock exchanges.
(3) If the Board specifies changes or issues observations on the draft offer document, the issuer and lead merchant banker shall carry out such changes in the draft offer document and comply with the observations issued by the Board before registering the prospectus, red-herring prospectus or shelf prospectus, as the case may be, with the Registrar of Companies or filing the letter of offer with the designated stock exchange.
(4) The  issuer  shall,  simultaneously  while  registering  the  prospectus,  red  herring  prospectus  or shelf  prospectus  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies  or  filing  the  letter  of  offer  with  the  designated stock exchange or before the opening of the issue, file a copy thereof with the Board through the lead merchant banker.
(5) The lead merchant banker shall, while filing the offer document with the Board in terms of sub- regulation  (1)  and  sub-regulation  (4),  file  a  copy  of  such  document  with  the  recognised  stock exchanges where the specified securities are proposed to be listed.
(6) The  offer  document  filed  with  the  Board  under  this  regulation  shall  also  be  furnished  to  the Board in a soft copy in the manner specified in Schedule V. 31[Security Deposit.
7. (1) The issuer shall deposit, before the opening of subscription list, and keep deposited with the stock  exchange(s),  an  amount  calculated  at  the  rate  of  one  per  cent.  of  the  amount  of  securities offered for subscription to the public. (2)The amount specified in sub-regulation (1) shall be deposited in the manner specified by Board and/or stock exchange(s). (3)The  amount  specified  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  refundable  or  forfeitable  in  the  manner specified by the Board.] Documents to be submitted before opening of the issue.
8. (1) The lead merchant bankers shall submit the following to the Board along with the draft offer document: 32[  (a)    a certificate, confirming that an agreement has been entered into between the issuer and the lead merchant bankers as per the format specified in Schedule II;] (b)  33[***] (c)    a due diligence certificate as per Form A of Schedule VI; (d)   in case of an issue of convertible debt instruments, a due diligence certificate from the debenture trustee as per Form B of Schedule VI; 34[  (e)    a  certificate  confirming  compliance  of  the  conditions  specified  in  Part  C  of  Schedule VIII.]
(2) The lead merchant bankers shall submit the following documents to the Board after issuance of observations by the Board or after expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 6 if the Board has not issued observations: (a)  a  statement  certifying  that  all  changes,  suggestions  and  observations  made  by  the  Board have been incorporated in the offer document; (b)  a  due  diligence  certificate  as  per  Form  C  of  Schedule  VI,  at  the  time  of  registering  the prospectus with the Registrar of Companies; (c)  a  copy  of  the  resolution  passed  by  the  board  of  directors  of  the  issuer  for  allotting specified securities to promoters towards amount received against promoters’ contribution, before opening of the issue; (d)  a  certificate  from  a  Chartered  Accountant,  before  opening  of  the  issue,  certifying  that promoters’  contribution  has  been  received  in  accordance  with  these  regulations, accompanying therewith the names and addresses of the promoters who have contributed to  the  promoters’  contribution  and  the  amount  paid  by  each  of  them  towards  such contribution; (e)  a due diligence certificate as per Form D of Schedule VI, immediately before the opening of the issue, certifying that necessary corrective action, if any, has been taken; (f)  a due diligence certificate as per Form E of Schedule VI, after the issue has opened but before it closes for subscription.
(3) The issuer shall, at the time of filing draft offer document with the recognised stock exchange where  the  specified  securities  are  proposed  to  be  listed,  submit  the  Permanent  Account  Number, bank account number and passport number of its promoters to such stock exchange. Draft offer document to be made public.
9. (1) The draft offer document filed with the Board shall be made public, for comments, if any, for a period of at least twenty one days from the date of such filing, by hosting it on the websites of the Board,  recognised  stock  exchanges  where  specified  securities  are  proposed  to  be  listed  and merchant bankers associated with the issue.
(2) The lead merchant bankers shall, after expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (1), file with the Board a statement giving information of the comments received by them or the issuer on the draft offer document during that period and the consequential changes, if any, to be made in the draft offer document.
35[(3) The issuer either on the date of filing the draft offer document with the Board or on the next day  shall  make  a  public  announcement  in  one  English  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide circulation,  one  Hindi  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  and  one  regional  language newspaper  with  wide  circulation  at  the  place  where  the  registered  office  of  the  issuer  is  situated, disclosing  to  the  public  the  fact  of  filing  of  draft  offer  document  with  the  Board  and  inviting  the public  to  give  their  comments  to  the  Board  in  respect  of  disclosures  made  in  the  draft  offer document.] Fast Track Issue.
10. (1) Nothing contained in sub-regulations (1), (2) and (3) of regulation 6 and regulations 7 and 8 shall apply to a public issue or rights issue if the issuer satisfies the following conditions: (a) (b) (c) the equity shares of the issuer have been listed on any recognised stock exchange having nationwide trading terminals for a period of at least three years immediately  preceding the reference date; the  average  market  capitalisation  of  public  shareholding  of  the  issuer  is  at  least  36[one thousand crore rupees in case of public issue and two hundred and fifty crore rupees in case of rights issue]; the  annualised  trading  turnover  of  the  equity  shares  of  the  issuer  during  six  calendar months immediately preceding the month of the reference date has been at least two per cent.  of  the  weighted  average  number  of  equity  shares  listed  during  such  six  months’ period: 37[Provided that for issuers, whose public shareholding is less than fifteen per cent. of its issued  equity  capital,  the  annualised  trading  turnover  of  its  equity  shares  has  been  at least  two  per  cent.  of  the  weighted  average  number  of  equity  shares  available  as  free float during such six months’ period;] the issuer has redressed at least ninety five per cent. of the complaints received from the investors  till  the  end  of  the  quarter  immediately  preceding  the  month  of  the  reference date; the  issuer  has  been  in  compliance  with  the  equity  listing  agreement  for  a  period  of  at least three years immediately preceding the reference date: 38[Provided  that  if  the  issuer  has  not  complied  with  the  provision  of  the  equity  listing agreement relating to composition of board of directors, for any quarter during the last three  years  immediately  preceding  the  reference  date,  but  is  compliant  with  such provisions  at  the  time  of  filing  of  offer  document  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies  or designated stock exchange, as the case may be, and adequate disclosures are made in the offer  document  about  such  non-compliances  during  the  three  years  immediately preceding the reference date, it shall be deemed as compliance with the condition] 39[:] 40[Provided further that imposition of only monetary fines by stock exchanges on the issuer  shall  not  be  a  ground  for  ineligibility  for  undertaking  issuances  under  this regulation;] the  impact  of  auditors’  qualifications,  if  any,  on  the  audited  accounts  of  the  issuer  in respect  of  those  financial  years  for  which  such  accounts  are  disclosed  in  the  offer document does not exceed five per cent. of the net profit or loss after tax of the issuer for the respective years; (d) (e) (f) (g)  no  show-cause  notices  have  been  issued  or  prosecution  proceedings  initiated  41[by  the Board] or pending against the issuer or its promoters or whole time directors as on the reference date; 42[(ga)    the  issuer  or  promoter  or  promoter  group  or  director  of  the  issuer  has  not  settled  any alleged  violation  of  securities  laws  through  the  consent  or  settlement  mechanism  with  the Board during three years immediately preceding the reference date;] (h) the  entire  shareholding  of  the  promoter  group  of  the  issuer  is  held  in  dematerialised form on the reference date 43[;] 44[(i)   in  case of a  rights  issue, promoters and promoter  group shall mandatorily subscribe to their  rights  entitlement  and  shall  not  renounce  their  rights,  except  to  the  extent  of renunciation within the promoter group or for the purpose of complying with minimum public  shareholding  norms  prescribed  under  Rule  19A  of  the  Securities  Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957; the  equity  shares  of  the  issuer  have  not  been  suspended  from  trading  as  a  disciplinary measure during last three years immediately preceding the reference date; the annualized delivery-based trading turnover of the equity shares during six calendar months immediately preceding the month of the reference date has been at least ten per cent  of  the  weighted  average  number  of  equity  shares  listed  during  such  six  months’ period; there shall be no conflict of interest between the lead merchant banker(s) and the issuer or its group or associate company in accordance with applicable regulations.] (j) (k) (l)
(2) The issuer shall file the offer document with the Board and the recognised stock exchanges in accordance with sub-regulations (4), (5) and (6) of regulation 6 and shall pay fees to the Board as specified in Schedule IV.
(3) The lead merchant bankers shall submit to the Board, the following documents along with the offer document: (a)  a  due  diligence  certificate  as  per  Form  A  of  Schedule  VI  including  additional (b) confirmations as specified in Form F of Schedule VI; in  case  of  a  fast  track  issue  of  convertible  debt  instruments,  a  due  diligence  certificate from the debenture trustee as per Form B of Schedule VI. (I)  “reference date” means: (a) (b) in  case  of  a  public  issue  by  a  listed  issuer,  the  date  of  registering  the  red  herring prospectus  (in  case  of  a  book  built  issue)  or  prospectus  (in  case  of  a  fixed  price  issue) with the Registrar of Companies; and in  case  of  a  rights  issue  by  a  listed  issuer,  the  date  of  filing  the  letter  of  offer  with  the designated stock exchange. (II)  “average  market  capitalisation  of  public  shareholding”  means  the  sum  of  daily  market capitalisation  of  public  shareholding  for  a  period  of  one  year  up  to  the  end  of  the  quarter preceding  the  month  in  which  the  proposed  issue  was  approved  by  the  shareholders  or  the board of the issuer, as the case may be, divided by the number of trading days. (III)  “public  shareholding”  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  it  in  the  equity  listing agreement. Opening of an issue.
11. (1) Subject to the compliance with sub-section (4) of section 60 of the Companies Act, 1956, a public issue or rights issue may be opened: (a)  within twelve months from the date of issuance of the observations by the Board under regulation 6; or (b)  within  three  months  of  expiry  of  the  period  stipulated  in  sub-regulation  (2)  of regulation 6, if the Board has not issued observations: Provided  that  in  case  of  a  fast  track  issue,  the  issue  shall  open  within  the  period stipulated in sub-section (4) of section 60 of the Companies Act, 1956.
(2) In  case  of  shelf  prospectus,  the  first  issue  may  be  opened  within  three  months  of  issuance  of observations by the Board.
(3) The issuer shall, before registering the red herring prospectus (in case of a book built issue) or prospectus  (in  case  of  a  fixed  price  issue)  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies  or  filing  the  letter  of offer with the designated stock exchange, as the case may be, file with the Board through the lead merchant bankers, an updated offer document highlighting all changes made in the offer document.
(4) Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  this  regulation,  if  there  are  changes  in  the  offer document in relation to the matters specified in Schedule VII, the updated offer document or new draft offer document, as the case may be, shall be filed with the Board along with fees specified in Schedule IV.
45[(5) An issue shall be opened after at least three working days from the date of registering the red herring prospectus with the Registrar of Companies.] Dispatch of issue material.
12. The lead merchant bankers shall dispatch the offer document and other issue material including forms  for  ASBA  to  the  designated  stock  exchange,  syndicate  members,  46[registrar  to  issue  and share  transfer  agents,  depository  participants,  stock  brokers,]  underwriters,  bankers  to  the  issue, investors’ associations and Self Certified Syndicate Banks in advance. Underwriting.
13.  (1)  Where  the  issuer  making  a  public  issue  (other  than  through  the  book  building  process)  or rights issue, desires to have the issue underwritten, it shall appoint the underwriters in accordance with Securities and Exchange Board of India (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993.
(2) Where  the  issuer  makes  a  public  issue  through  the  book  building  process,  such  issue  shall  be underwritten by book runners or syndicate members: 47[Provided  that  atleast  48[seventy  five  per  cent]  of  the  net  offer  to  the  public  proposed  to  be compulsorily  allotted  to  qualified  institutional  buyers  for  the  purpose  of  compliance  of  the eligibility conditions  specified in  sub-regulation  (2) of regulation  26 and regulation 27, cannot  be underwritten.]
(3) The issuer shall enter into underwriting agreement with the book runner, who in turn shall enter into  underwriting  agreement  with  syndicate  members,  indicating  therein  the  number  of  specified securities  which  they  shall  subscribe  to  at  the  predetermined  price  in  the  event  of  under- subscription in the issue.
(4) If  syndicate  members  fail  to  fulfil  their  underwriting  obligations,  the  lead  book  runner  shall fulfil the underwriting obligations.
(5) The book runners and syndicate members shall not subscribe to the issue in any manner except for fulfilling their underwriting obligations.
(6)  49[***]
(7)  In  case  of  every  underwritten  issue,  the  lead  merchant  banker  or  the  lead  book  runner  shall undertake minimum underwriting obligations as specified in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992.
(8) Where hundred per cent. of the offer through offer document is underwritten, the underwriting obligations shall be for the entire hundred per cent. of the offer through offer document and shall not be restricted upto the minimum subscription level. Minimum subscription.
14. (1) The minimum subscription to be received in an issue shall not be less than ninety per cent. of the offer through offer document 50[:] 51[Provided that in the case of an initial public offer, the minimum subscription to be received shall be subject to allotment of minimum number of specified securities, as prescribed in sub-clause (b) of clause (2) of rule 19 of Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957.]
(2) In  the  event  of  non-receipt  of  minimum  subscription  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1),  all application moneys received shall be refunded to the applicants forthwith, but not later than: fifteen days of the closure of the issue, in case of a non-underwritten issue; and (a) (b)  seventy  days  of  the  closure  of  the  issue,  in  the  case  of  an  underwritten  issue  where minimum subscription including devolvement obligations paid by the underwriters is not received within sixty days of the closure of the issue.
(3) The  offer  document  shall  contain  adequate  disclosures  regarding  minimum  subscription  as specified in Part A of Schedule VIII.
52[(4)  Nothing  contained  in  this  regulation,  except  the  requirement  relating  to  allotment  of minimum number of specified securities, shall apply to offer for sale of specified securities.] means, an enterprise wholly engaged in the business of (i) developing or (ii) operating and maintaining or (iii) developing, operating and maintaining any infrastructure facility. Oversubscription.
15. No allotment shall be made by the issuer in excess of the specified securities offered through the offer document: Provided  that  in  case  of  oversubscription,  an  allotment  of  not  more  than  ten  per  cent.  of  the  net offer to public may be made for the purpose of making allotment in minimum lots. Monitoring agency.
16. (1) If the issue size53[, excluding the size of offer for sale by selling shareholders,] exceeds 54[one hundred] crore rupees, the issuer shall make arrangements for the use of proceeds of the issue to be monitored by a public financial institution or by one of the scheduled commercial banks named in the offer document as bankers of the issuer: Provided  that  nothing  contained  in  this  clause  shall  apply  to  55[ ]  an  issue  of  specified  securities made by a bank or public financial institution 56[or an insurance company].
57[(2)  The  monitoring  agency  shall  submit  its  report  to  the  issuer  in  the  format  specified  in Schedule  IX  on  a  quarterly  basis,  till  at  least  ninety  five  percent  of  the  proceeds  of  the  issue, excluding the proceeds under offer for sale and amount raised for general corporate purposes, have been utilized.]
58[(3) The Board of Directors and the management of the company shall provide their comments on the findings of the monitoring agency as specified in Schedule IX.
(4) The issuer shall, within forty five days from the end of each quarter, publically disseminate the report  of  the  monitoring  agency  by  uploading  the  same  on  its  website  as  well  as  submitting  the same to the stock exchange(s) on which its equity shares are listed.] Manner of calls.
17.  If the issuer proposes to receive subscription monies in calls, it shall ensure that the outstanding subscription money is called within twelve months from the date of allotment in the issue and if any applicant fails to pay the call money within the said twelve months, the equity shares on which there are calls in arrear along with the subscription money already paid on such shares shall be forfeited: Provided  that  it  shall  not  be  necessary  to  call  the  outstanding  subscription  money  within  twelve months, if the issuer has appointed a monitoring agency in terms of regulation 16. Allotment, refund and payment of interest.
18.  (1)  The  issuer  and  merchant  bankers  shall  ensure  that  specified  securities  are  allotted  and/or application moneys are refunded within fifteen days from the date of closure of the issue.
(2) Where specified securities are not allotted and/or application moneys are not refunded within the period  stipulated  in  sub-regulation  (1),  the  issuer  shall  undertake  to  pay  interest  at  such  rate  and within such time as disclosed in the offer document. Restriction on further capital issues.
19.  No issuer shall make any further issue of specified securities in any manner whether  by way of public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, qualified institutions placement, issue of bonus shares or otherwise: (a) in case of a fast track issue, during the period between the date of registering the red herring prospectus (in case of a book built issue) or prospectus (in case of a fixed price issue) with the Registrar of Companies or filing the letter of offer with the designated stock exchange and the listing of the specified securities offered through the offer document or refund of application moneys; or in case of other issues, during the period between the date of filing the draft offer document with the Board and the listing of the specified securities offered through the offer document or refund of application moneys; (b) unless full disclosures regarding the total number of specified securities and amount proposed to be raised from such further issue are made in such draft offer document or offer document, as the case may be. Additional requirements for issue of convertible debt instruments.
20. (1) In addition to other requirements laid down in these regulations, an issuer making a public issue or rights issue of convertible debt instruments shall comply with the following conditions: (a) (b) it  has obtained credit rating from one or more credit rating agencies; it has appointed one or  more debenture trustees  in  accordance with  the provisions of section 117B of the Companies Act, 1956 and Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993;
31.5.2017. (c) (d) such assets are sufficient to discharge the principal amount at all times; it  has  created  debenture  redemption  reserve  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of section 117C of the Companies Act, 1956; if the issuer proposes to create a charge or security on its assets in respect of secured convertible debt instruments, it shall ensure that: (i) (ii)  such assets are free from any encumbrance; (iii)  where security is already created on such assets in favour of financial institutions or banks or the issue of convertible debt instruments is proposed to be secured by creation of security on a leasehold land, the consent of such financial institution, bank or lessor for a second or pari passu charge has been obtained and submitted to the debenture trustee before the opening of the issue; (iv)  the security/asset cover shall be arrived at after reduction of the liabilities having a  first/prior  charge,  in  case  the  convertible  debt  instruments  are  secured  by  a second or subsequent charge.
(2) The issuer shall redeem the convertible debt instruments in terms of the offer document. Roll over of non convertible portion of partly convertible debt instruments.
21. (1) The non-convertible portion of partly convertible debt instruments issued by a listed issuer, the value of which exceeds fifty lakh rupees, may be rolled over without change in the interest rate, subject  to  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  section  121  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  and  the following conditions: (a)  seventy  five per cent.  of the holders of the convertible debt  instruments  of the issuer (b) (c) have, through a resolution, approved the rollover through postal ballot; the issuer has, along with the notice for passing the resolution, sent to all holders of the convertible debt instruments, an auditors’ certificate on the cash flow of the issuer and with comments on the liquidity position of the issuer; the  issuer  has  undertaken  to  redeem  the  non-convertible  portion  of  the  partly convertible debt instruments of all the holders of the convertible debt instruments who have not agreed to the resolution; (d)  credit  rating  has  been  obtained  from  at  least  one  credit  rating  agency  registered  with the  Board  within  a  period  of  six months  prior to  the  due  date  of  redemption  and  has been communicated to the holders of the convertible debt instruments, before the roll over;
(2) The  creation  of  fresh  security  and  execution  of  fresh  trust  deed  shall  not  be  mandatory  if  the existing trust deed or the security documents provide for continuance of the security till redemption of secured convertible debt instruments; Provided that whether the issuer is required to create fresh security and to execute fresh trust deed or not shall be decided by the debenture trustee. Conversion of optionally convertible debt instruments into equity share capital.
22.  (1)  An  issuer  shall  not  convert  its  optionally  convertible  debt  instruments  into  equity  shares unless the holders of such convertible debt instruments have sent their positive consent to the issuer and non-receipt of reply to any notice sent by the issuer for this purpose shall not be construed as consent for conversion of any convertible debt instruments.
(2) Where  the  value  of  the  convertible  portion  of  any  convertible  debt  instruments  issued  by  a listed  issuer  exceeds  fifty  lakh  rupees  and  the  issuer  has  not  determined  the  conversion  price  of such convertible debt instruments at the time of making the issue, the holders of such convertible debt  instruments  shall  be  given  the  option  of  not  converting  the  convertible  portion  into  equity shares: Provided  that  where  the  upper  limit  on  the  price  of  such  convertible  debt  instruments  and justification thereon is determined and disclosed to the investors at the time of making the issue, it shall  not  be  necessary  to  give  such  option  to  the  holders  of  the  convertible  debt  instruments  for converting the convertible portion into equity share capital within the said upper limit.
(3) Where  an  option  is  to  be  given  to  the  holders  of  the  convertible  debt  instruments  in  terms  of sub-regulation  (2)  and  if  one  or  more  of  such  holders  do  not  exercise  the  option  to  convert  the instruments  into  equity  share  capital  at  a  price  determined  in  the  general  meeting  of  the shareholders,  the  issuer  shall  redeem  that  part  of  the  instruments  within  one  month  from  the  last date by which option is to be exercised, at a price which shall not be less than its face value.
(4) The  provision  of  sub-regulation  (3)  shall  not  apply  if  such  redemption  is  in  terms  of  the disclosures made in the offer document. Issue of convertible debt instruments for financing.
23.  No  issuer  shall  issue  convertible  debt  instruments  for  financing  replenishment  of  funds  or  for providing loan to or for acquiring shares of any person who is part of the same group or who is under the same management: Provided that an issuer may issue fully convertible debt instruments for these purposes if the period of conversion of such debt instruments is less than eighteen months from the date of issue of such debt instruments. (I)  Two persons shall be deemed to be “part of the same group” if they belong to the group within the meaning of clause (ef) of section 2 of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (54 of 1969) or if they own “inter connected undertakings within the meaning of clause (g) of section 2 of the said Act; (II)  The expression “under the same management” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in sub-section (1B) of section 370 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956). Alteration of rights of holders of specified securities.
24. No issuer shall alter the terms (including the terms of issue) of specified securities which may adversely affect the interests of the holders of that specified securities, except with the consent in writing of the holders of not less than three-fourths of the specified securities of that class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a meeting of the holders of the specified securities of that class. CHAPTER III PROVISIONS AS TO PUBLIC ISSUE PART I - ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS Reference date.
25.  Unless  otherwise  provided  in  this  Chapter,  an  issuer  making  a  public  issue  shall  satisfy  the conditions of this Chapter as on the date of filing draft offer document with the Board and also as on the date of registering the offer document with the Registrar of Companies. Conditions for initial public offer.
26. (1) An issuer may make an initial public offer, if: (a) it  has  net  tangible  assets  of  at  least  three  crore  rupees  in  each  of  the  preceding  three full years (of twelve months each), of which not more than fifty per cent. are held in monetary assets: Provided  that  if  more  than  fifty  per  cent.  of  the  net  tangible  assets  are  held  in monetary  assets,  the  issuer  has  made  firm  commitments  to  utilise  such  excess monetary assets in its business or project; 59[Provided  further  that  the  limit  of  fifty  per  cent.  on  monetary  assets  shall  not  be applicable in case the public offer is made entirely through an offer for sale.] 60[(b)    it has a minimum average pre-tax operating profit of rupees fifteen crore, calculated on a  restated  and  consolidated  basis,  during  the  three  most  profitable  years  out  of  the immediately preceding five years.] it  has a net worth of at least one crore rupees in each of the preceding three full years (of twelve months each); the aggregate of the proposed issue and all previous issues made in the same financial year in terms of issue size does not exceed five times its pre-issue net worth as per the audited balance sheet of the preceding financial year; if it has changed its name within the last one year, at least fifty per cent. of the revenue for the preceding one full year has been earned by it from the activity indicated by the new name. (d) (c) (e)
61[(2)    An  issuer  not  satisfying  the  condition  stipulated  in  sub-regulation  (1)  may  make  an  initial public offer if the issue is made through the book-building process and the issuer undertakes to  allot,  at  least  seventy  five  percent  of  the  net  offer  to  public,  to  qualified  institutional buyers and to refund full subscription money if it fails to make the said minimum allotment to qualified institutional buyers.]
(3) An  issuer  may  make  an  initial  public  offer  of  convertible  debt  instruments  without  making  a prior public issue of its equity shares and listing thereof.
(4) An issuer shall not  make an allotment  pursuant  to  a public issue if  the number of prospective allottees is less than one thousand.
62[(5) No issuer shall make an initial public offer if there are any outstanding convertible securities or any other right which would entitle any person with any option to receive equity shares:] Provided that the provisions of this sub-regulation shall not apply to: (a)  a  public  issue  made  during  the  currency  of  convertible  debt  instruments  which  were  issued through  an  earlier  initial  public  offer,  if  the  conversion  price  of  such  convertible  debt instruments was determined and disclosed in the prospectus of the earlier issue of convertible debt instruments; (b)  outstanding  options  granted  to  employees  pursuant  to  an  employee  stock  option  scheme framed in accordance with the relevant Guidance Note or Accounting Standards, if any, issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India in this regard. 63[(c)    fully  paid-up  outstanding  convertible  securities  which  are  required  to  be  converted  on  or before  the  date  of  filing  of  the  red  herring  prospectus  (in  case  of  book-built  issues)  or  the prospectus (in case of fixed price issues), as the case may be.]
(6) Subject to provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and these regulations, equity shares may be offered for sale to public if such equity shares have been held by the sellers for a period of at least one  year  prior  to  the  filing  of  draft  offer  document  with  the  Board  in  accordance  with  sub- regulation (1) of regulation 6: Provided  that  in  case  equity  shares  received  on  conversion  or  exchange  of  fully  paid-up compulsorily  convertible  securities  including  depository  receipts  are  being  offered  for  sale,  the holding period of such convertible securities as well as that of resultant equity shares together shall be considered for the purpose of calculation of one year period referred in this sub-regulation: Provided  further  that  the  requirement  of  holding  equity  shares  for  a  period  of  one  year  shall  not apply: (a) in  case  of  an  offer  for  sale  of  specified  securities  of  a  government  company  or  statutory authority  or  corporation  or  any  special  purpose  vehicle  set  up  and  controlled  by  any  one  or more of them, which is engaged in infrastructure sector; if the specified securities offered for sale were acquired pursuant to any scheme approved by a High  Court  under  sections  391-394  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956,  in  lieu  of  business  and invested capital which had been in existence for a period of more than one year prior to such approval64[;] (b) 65[(c) if the specified securities offered for sale were issued under a bonus issue on  securities held for  a  period  of  at  least  one  year  prior  to  the  filing  of  draft  offer  document  with  the  Board  and further subject to the following, - (i) such specified securities being issued out of free reserves and share premium existing in the books of account as at the end of the financial year preceding the financial year in which the draft offer document is filed with the Board ; and (ii) such specified securities not being issued by utilization of revaluation reserves or unrealized profits of the issuer.]
66[(7) An issuer making an initial public offer may obtain grading for such offer from one or more credit rating agencies registered with the Board.] (I)  “net tangible assets” mean the sum of all net assets of the issuer, excluding intangible assets as defined in Accounting Standard 26 (AS 26) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India; (II)  “project” means the object for which monies are proposed to be raised to cover the objects of the issue; (III)  In case of an issuer which had been a partnership firm, the track record of distributable profits of the partnership firm shall be considered only if the financial statements of the partnership business  for  the  period  during  which  the  issuer  was  a  partnership  firm,  conform  to  and  are revised  in  the  format  prescribed  for  companies  under  the  Companies  Act,  1956  and  also comply with the following: (a)  adequate disclosures are made in the financial statements as required to be made by the (b) issuer as per Schedule VI of the Companies Act, 1956; the financial statements are duly certified by a Chartered Accountant stating that: (i) the  accounts  and  the  disclosures  made  are  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of Schedule VI of the Companies Act, 1956; the  accounting  standards  of  the  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of  India  have been followed; (ii) (iii)  the financial statements present a true and fair view of the firm’s accounts; (IV)  In  case  of  an  issuer  formed  out  of  a  division  of  an  existing  company,  the  track  record  of distributable  profits  of  the  division  spun-off  shall  be  considered  only  if  the  requirements complied with; (V)  “bid-ask spread” means the difference between quotations for sale and purchase; (VI)  The term “infrastructure sector” includes the facilities or services as specified in Schedule X. Conditions for further public offer.
27. An issuer may make a further public offer if it satisfies the conditions specified in clauses (d) and  (e)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  26  and  if  it  does  not  satisfy  those  conditions,  it  may make a further public offer if it satisfies the conditions specified in sub-regulation (2) of regulation
26. PART II - PRICING IN PUBLIC ISSUE Pricing.
28. (1) An issuer may determine the price of specified securities in consultation with the lead merchant banker or through the book building process.
(2)  An issuer may determine the coupon rate and conversion price of convertible debt instruments in consultation with the lead merchant banker or through the book building process.
(3)  The issuer shall undertake the book building process in a manner specified in Schedule XI. Differential pricing.
29. An issuer may offer specified securities at different prices, subject to the following: (a) retail individual investors or retail individual shareholders  67[or  employees  68[***]  entitled for reservation made under regulation 42 making an application for specified securities of value  not  more  than  69[two  lakhs]  rupees,]  may  be  offered  specified  securities  at  a  price lower than the price at which net offer is made to other categories of applicants: Provided  that  such  difference  shall  not  be  more  than  ten  per  cent.  of  the  price  at  which specified securities are offered to other categories of applicants; (b)  in case of a book built issue, the price of the specified securities offered to an anchor investor shall not be lower than the price offered to other applicants; (c)  in case of a composite issue, the price of the specified securities offered in the public issue may  be  different  from  the  price  offered  in  rights  issue  and  justification  for  such  price difference shall be given in the offer document. 70[(d) In  case  the  issuer  opts  for  the  alternate  method  of  book  building  in  terms  of  Part  D  of Schedule  XI,  the  issuer  may  offer  specified  securities  to  its  employees  at  a  price  lower than the floor price: Provided  that  the  difference  between  the  floor  price  and  the  price  at  which  specified securities are offered to employees shall not be more than ten per cent. of the floor price.] Price and price band.
30. (1) The issuer may mention a price or price band in the draft prospectus (in case of a fixed price issue) and floor price or price band in the red herring prospectus (in case of a book built issue) and determine the price at a later date before registering the prospectus with the Registrar of Companies: Provided that the prospectus registered with the Registrar of Companies shall contain only one price or the specific coupon rate, as the case may be.
(2) 71[*  *  *]  The  issuer  shall  announce  the  floor  price  or  price  band  at  least  72[five  working  days] before the opening of the bid (in case of an initial public offer) and at least one working day before the opening of the bid (in case of a further public offer), in all the newspapers in which the pre issue advertisement was released.
(3)  The  announcement  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (2)  shall  contain  relevant  financial  ratios computed for both upper and lower end of the price band and also a statement drawing attention of the investors to the section titled “basis of issue price” in the prospectus. 73[(3A)    The  announcement  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (2)  and  the  relevant  financial  ratios referred to in sub-regulation (3) shall be disclosed on the websites of those stock exchanges where the securities are proposed to be listed and shall also be pre-filled in the application forms available on the websites of the stock exchanges.]
(4)  The cap on the price band shall be less than or equal to one hundred and twenty per cent. of the floor price.
(5) The floor price or the final price shall not be less than the face value of the specified securities. coupon rate in case of convertible debt instruments. Face value of equity shares.
31.  (1)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956,  the  Act  and  these  regulations,  an issuer  making  an  initial  public  offer  may  determine  the  face  value  of  the  equity  shares  in  the following manner: (a) (b) if the issue price per equity share is five hundred rupees or more, the issuer shall have the option to determine the face value at less than ten rupees per equity share: Provided that the face value shall not be less than one rupee per equity share; if the issue price per equity share is less than five hundred rupees, the face value of the equity shares shall be ten rupees per equity share: Provided that nothing contained in this sub-regulation shall apply to initial public offer made  by  any  government  company,  statutory  authority  or  corporation  or  any  special purpose vehicle set up by any of them, which is engaged in infrastructure sector.
(2) The  disclosure  about  the  face  value  of  equity  shares  (including  the  statement  about  the  issue price being “X” times of the face value) shall be made in the advertisements, offer documents and application forms in identical font size as that of issue price or price band. facilities or services as specified in Schedule X. PART III - PROMOTERS’ CONTRIBUTION Minimum promoters’ contribution.
32. (1) The promoters of the issuer shall contribute in the public issue as follows: (a) (b) (c) in  case  of  an  initial  public  offer,  not  less  than  twenty  per  cent.  of  the  post  issue capital74[:] 75[Provided that in case the post issue shareholding of the promoters is less than twenty per cent.,  alternative investment  funds may  contribute for the purpose of meeting the shortfall in minimum contribution as specified for promoters, subject to a maximum of ten per cent of the post issue capital.] in case of a further public offer, either to the extent of twenty per cent. of the proposed issue size or to the extent of twenty per cent. of the post-issue capital; in  case  of  a  composite  issue,  either  to  the  extent  of  twenty  per  cent.  of  the  proposed issue  size  or  to  the  extent  of  twenty  per  cent.  of  the  post-issue  capital  excluding  the rights issue component.
(2) In  case  of  a  public  issue  or  composite  issue  of  convertible  securities,  minimum  promoters’ contribution shall be as follows: (a) (b) (c) the  promoters  shall  contribute  twenty  per  cent.  as  stipulated  in  clauses  (a),  (b)  or  (c)  of sub-regulation  (1),  as  the  case  may  be,  either  by  way  of  equity  shares  or  by  way  of subscription to the convertible securities: Provided that if the price of the equity shares allotted pursuant to conversion is not pre- determined and not disclosed in the offer document, the promoters shall contribute only by way of subscription to the convertible securities being issued in the public issue and shall undertake  in  writing  to  subscribe  to  the  equity  shares  pursuant  to  conversion  of  such securities. in  case  of  any  issue  of  convertible  securities  which  are  convertible  or  exchangeable  on different dates and if the promoters’ contribution is by way of equity shares (conversion price  being  pre-determined),    such  contribution  shall  not  be  at  a  price  lower  than  the weighted  average  price  of  the  equity  share  capital  arising  out  of  conversion  of  such securities. subject to the provisions of clause (a) and (b) above, in case of an initial public offer of convertible debt instruments without a prior public issue of equity shares, the promoters shall bring in a contribution of at least twenty per cent. of the project cost in the form of equity shares, subject to contributing at least twenty per cent. of the issue size from their own funds in the form of equity shares: Provided  that  if  the  project  is  to  be  implemented  in  stages,  the  promoters’  contribution shall be with respect to total equity participation till the respective stage vis-à-vis the debt raised or proposed to be raised through the public issue.
(3) In case of a further public offer or composite issue where the promoters contribute more than the stipulated minimum promoters’ contribution, the allotment with respect to excess contribution shall be made at a price determined in terms of the provisions of regulation 76 or the issue price, whichever is higher.
(4) The promoters shall satisfy the requirements of this regulation at least one day prior to the date of  opening  of  the  issue  and  the  amount  of  promoters’  contribution  shall  be  kept  in  an  escrow account with a scheduled commercial bank and shall be released to the issuer along with the release of the issue proceeds: Provided  that  where  the  promoters’  contribution  has  already  been  brought  in  and  utilised,  the issuer shall give the cash flow statement disclosing the use of such funds in the offer document; Provided further that where the minimum promoters’ contribution is more than one hundred crore rupees, the promoters shall bring in at least one hundred crore rupees before the date of opening of the issue and the remaining amount may be brought on pro-rata basis before the calls are made to public. (I)  Promoters’ contribution shall be computed on the basis of the post-issue expanded capital: (a)  assuming full proposed conversion of convertible securities into equity shares; (b)  assuming  exercise  of  all  vested  options,  where  any  employee  stock  options  are outstanding at the time of initial public offer in terms of proviso (b) to sub-regulation (5) of regulation 26. (II)  For computation of “weighted average price”: (a)  “weights” means the number of equity shares arising out of conversion of such specified securities into equity shares at various stages; (b)  “price”  means  the  price  of  equity  shares  on  conversion  arrived  at  after  taking  into account predetermined conversion price at various stages. Securities ineligible for minimum promoters’ contribution.
33. (1) For the computation of minimum promoters’ contribution, the following specified securities shall not be eligible: (a)  specified securities acquired during the preceding three years, if they are: (i)  acquired  for  consideration  other  than  cash  and  revaluation  of  assets  or capitalisation of intangible assets is involved in such transaction; or (ii)  resulting  from  a  bonus  issue  by  utilisation  of  revaluation  reserves  or  unrealised profits of the issuer or from bonus issue against equity shares which are ineligible for minimum promoters’ contribution; (b)  specified securities acquired by promoters 76[ and alternative investment funds] during the preceding one year at a price lower than the price at which specified securities are being offered to public in the initial public offer: Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply: (i) if promoters77[/alternative investment funds, as applicable] pay to the issuer, the difference between the price at which specified securities are offered in the initial public offer and the price at which the specified securities had been acquired; if  such  specified  securities  are  acquired  in  terms  of  the  scheme  under  sections 391-394 of the Companies Act, 1956, as approved by a High Court, by promoters in lieu of business and invested capital that had been in existence for a period of more than one year prior to such approval; (ii)
12.10.2012.
12.10.2012. (iii)  to  an  initial  public  offer  by  a  government  company,  statutory  authority  or corporation  or  any  special  purpose  vehicle  set  up  by  any  of  them,  which  is engaged in infrastructure sector; (c)  specified  securities  allotted  to  promoters  78[and  alternative  investment  funds]  during the preceding one year at a price less than the issue price, against funds brought in by them  during  that  period,  in  case  of  an  issuer  formed  by  conversion  of  one  or  more partnership  firms,  where  the  partners  of  the  erstwhile  partnership  firms  are  the promoters of the issuer and there is no change in the management: Provided that specified securities, allotted to promoters against capital existing in such firms for a period of more than one year on a continuous basis, shall be eligible; (d)  specified securities pledged with any creditor.
(2) Specified securities referred to in clauses (a) and (c) of sub-regulation (1) shall be eligible for the  computation  of  promoters’  contribution,  if  such  securities  are  acquired  pursuant  to  a  scheme which has been approved under sections 391-394 of the Companies Act, 1956. includes the facilities or services as specified in Schedule X. Requirement of minimum promoters’ contribution not applicable in certain cases.
34. The requirements of minimum promoters’ contribution shall not apply in case of: (a)  an issuer which does not have any identifiable promoter; (b)  a further public offer, where the equity shares  79[of the issuer] 80[***] are not infrequently traded in a recognised stock exchange for a period of at least three years and the issuer has a track record of dividend payment for at least immediately preceding three years: Provided that where promoters propose to subscribe to the specified securities offered to the extent greater than higher of the two options available in clause (b) of sub-regulation
(1) of regulation 32, the subscription in excess of such percentage shall be made at a price determined  in  terms  of  the  provisions  of  regulation  76  or  the  issue  price,  whichever  is higher. rights issues. (c) and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997 and the reference date for the purpose of computing the annualised trading turnover referred to in of a fast track issue, the date of filing the offer document with the Registrar of Companies before opening of the issue. PART IV - RESTRICTION ON TRANSFERABILITY (LOCK-IN) OF PROMOTERS’ CONTRIBUTION, ETC. Date of commencement of lock in and inscription of non-transferability.
35.  (1)  Save  as  otherwise  provided  in  this  Chapter,  specified  securities  held  by  promoters  and persons other than promoters shall not be transferable (hereinafter referred to as “lock-in’) from the date of allotment of the specified securities in the proposed public issue for the period stipulated in this Chapter .
(2) The certificate of specified securities which are subject to lock-in shall contain the inscription “non transferable”  and the lock-in  period and in  case such specified securities are dematerialised, the issuer shall ensure that lock-in is recorded by the depository.
(3) Where  the  specified  securities  which  are  subject  to  lock-in  are  partly  paid-up  and  the  amount called-up on such specified securities is less than the amount called-up on the specified securities issued to  the public, the “lock-in” shall end only  on the expiry of three  years after such specified securities have become pari-passu with the specified securities issued to the public. Lock-in of specified securities held by promoters.
36.  In  a  public  issue,  the  specified  securities  held  by  promoters  shall  be  locked-in  for  the  period stipulated hereunder: (a)  minimum  promoters’  contribution  81[  including  contribution  made  by  alternative  investment funds,  referred  to  in  proviso  to  clause  (a)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  32,]  shall  be locked-in  for  a  period  of  three  years  from  the  date  of  commencement  of  commercial production or date of allotment in the public issue, whichever is later; (b)  promoters’  holding  in  excess  of  minimum  promoters’  contribution  shall  be  locked-in  for  a period of one year: Provided that excess promoters’ contribution as provided in proviso to clause (b) of regulation 34 shall not be subject to lock-in. commercial  production"  means  the  last  date  of  the  month  in  which  commercial  production  in  a manufacturing company is expected to commence as stated in the offer document. Lock-in of specified securities held by persons other than promoters.
37.  In  case  of  an  initial  public  offer,  the  entire  pre-issue  capital  held  by  persons  other  than promoters shall be locked-in for a period of one year: Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to: (a)  equity  shares  allotted  to  employees  under  an  employee  stock  option  or  employee  stock purchase  scheme  of  the  issuer  prior  to  the  initial  public  offer,  if  the  issuer  has  made  full disclosures  with  respect  to  such  options  or  scheme  in  accordance  with  Part  A  of  Schedule VIII; 82[(b)  equity shares held by a venture capital fund or alternative investment fund of category I [or category II]83 or a foreign venture capital investor: Provided that such equity shares shall be locked in for a period of at least one year from the date of purchase by the venture capital fund or alternative investment fund or foreign venture capital investor.] conversion  of  fully  paid-up  compulsorily  convertible  securities,  the  holding  period  of  such convertible securities as well as that of resultant equity shares together shall be considered for the purpose  of  calculation  of  one  year  period  and  convertible  securities  shall  be  deemed  to  be  fully paid-up,  if  the  entire  consideration  payable  thereon  has  been  paid  and  no  further  consideration  is payable at the time of their conversion.
12.10.2012. Prior to its substitution, this clause read as under: “(b) equity shares held by a venture capital fund or a foreign venture capital investor for a period of at least one year prior to the date of filing the draft prospectus with the Board:”
31.07.2017 for RHPs registered with the Registrar of Companies on or after 31.07.2017. Lock-in of specified securities lent to stabilising agent under green shoe option.
38.  The  lock-in  provisions  of  this  Chapter  shall  not  apply  with  respect  to  the  specified  securities lent  to  stabilising  agent  for  the  purpose  of  green  shoe  option,  during  the  period  starting  from  the date of lending of such specified securities and ending on the date on which they are returned to the lender in terms of sub-regulation (5) or (6) of regulation 45: Provided that the specified securities shall be locked-in for the remaining period from the date on which they are returned to the lender. Pledge of locked-in specified securities.
39.  Specified  securities  held  by  promoters  and  locked-in  may  be  pledged  with  any  scheduled commercial bank or public financial institution as collateral security for loan granted by such bank or institution, subject to the following: (a) if  the  specified  securities  are  locked-in  in  terms  of  clause  (a)  of  regulation  36,  the  loan  has been  granted  by  such  bank  or  institution  for  the  purpose  of  financing  one  or  more  of  the objects  of  the  issue  and  pledge  of  specified  securities  is  one  of  the  terms  of  sanction  of  the loan; if the specified securities are locked-in in terms of clause (b) of regulation 36 and the pledge of specified securities is one of the terms of sanction of the loan. (b) Transferability of locked-in specified securities.
40. Subject to the provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997, the specified securities held by promoters and locked-in as per regulation 36 may be transferred to  another  promoter or any person of the  promoter group or a new promoter or a person in control of the issuer and the specified securities held by persons other  than  promoters  and  locked-in  as  per  regulation  37  may  be  transferred  to  any  other  person holding  the  specified  securities  which  are    locked-in  along  with  the  securities  proposed  to  be transferred: Provided that lock-in on such specified securities shall continue for the remaining period with the transferee and such transferee shall not be eligible to transfer them till the lock-in period stipulated in these regulations has expired. PART V - MINIMUM OFFER TO PUBLIC, RESERVATIONS, ETC. Minimum offer to public.
41. 84[ The minimum net offer to the public shall be subject to the provisions of clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 19 of Securities Contracts (Regulations) Rules, 1957.] Reservation on competitive basis.
42. (1) In case of an issue made through the book building process, the issuer may make reservation on competitive  basis  out  of  the  issue  size  excluding  promoters’  contribution  and  net  offer  to  public  in favour of the following categories of persons:
(2)  84[* * *] (a) 85[employees; and in case of a new issuer, persons who are in the permanent and full time employment  of  the  promoting  companies  excluding  the  promoters  and  an  immediate relative of the promoter of such companies;] (b)  shareholders (other than promoters) of: listed promoting companies, in case of a new issuer; and listed group companies, in case of an existing issuer: (i) (ii) Provided  that  if  the  promoting  companies  are  designated  financial  institutions  or  state and central financial institutions, the shareholders of such promoting companies shall not be eligible for the reservation on competitive basis; (c)  persons  who,  as  on  the  date  of  filing  the  draft  offer  document  with  the  Board,  are associated  with  the  issuer  as  depositors,  bondholders  or  subscribers  to  services  of  the issuer making an initial public offer: Provided  that  the  issuer  shall  not  make  the  reservation  to  the  issue  management  team, syndicate  members,  their  promoters,  directors  and  employees  and  for  the  group  or associate  companies  of  the  issue  management  team  and  syndicate  members  and  their promoters, directors and employees;
(2)  In  case  of  an  issue  made  other  than  through  the  book  building  process,  the  issuer  may  make reservation on competitive basis out of the issue size excluding promoters’ contribution and net offer to public in favour of the following categories of persons: (a) 86[employees; and in case of a new issuer, persons who are in the permanent and full time employment of the promoting companies excluding the promoters and an immediate relative of the promoter of such companies;] (b)  shareholders (other than promoters) of: (i) (ii) listed promoting companies, in the case of a new issuer; and listed group companies, in the case of an existing issuer: Provided that if the promoting companies are designated financial institutions or state and  central  financial  institutions,  the  shareholders  of  such  promoting  companies  shall not be eligible for the reservation on competitive basis.
(3)  In case of a further public offer (not being a composite issue), the issuer may make reservation on competitive  basis  out  of  the  issue  size  excluding  promoters’  contribution  and  net  offer  to  public  in favour of retail individual shareholders of the issuer.
(4) The reservation on competitive basis shall be subject to following conditions: (a) (b) (c) the  aggregate  of  reservations  for  employees  shall  not  exceed  87[five  per  cent.  of  the  post issue capital of the issuer]; reservation for shareholders shall not exceed ten per cent. of the issue size; reservation for persons who as on the date of filing the draft offer document with the Board, have  business  association  as  depositors,  bondholders  and  subscribers  to  services  with  the issuer making an initial public offer shall not exceed five per cent. of the issue size; (d)  no further application for subscription in the net offer to public category shall be entertained from any person (except an employee and retail individual shareholder) in favour of whom reservation on competitive basis is made; (e)  any  unsubscribed  portion  in  any  reserved  category  may  be  added  to  any  other  reserved category  and  the  unsubscribed  portion,  if  any,  after  such  inter-se  adjustments  among  the reserved categories shall be added to the net offer to the public category; (f) (g) in case of under-subscription in the net offer to the public category, spill-over to the extent of under-subscription shall be permitted from the reserved category to the net public offer category; 88[value  of  allotment  to  any  employee  in  pursuance  of  reservation  made  under  sub- regulations (1) or (2), as the case may be, shall not exceed 89[two lakhs] rupees.] 90[Provided that in the event of under-subscription in the employee reservation portion, the unsubscribed portion may be allotted on a proportionate basis, for a value in excess of two lakhs rupees, subject to the total allotment to an employee not exceeding five lakhs rupees.]
(5)  In  the  case  of  reserved  categories,  a  single  applicant  in  the  reserved  category  may  make  an application for a number of specified securities which exceeds the reservation. (I)  The term "reservation on competitive basis” means reservation wherein specified securities are allotted in proportion of the number of specified securities applied for in respect of a particular reserved category to the number of specified securities reserved for that category; (II)  The term “new issuer” means an issuer which has not completed twelve months of commercial operation and its audited operative results are not available. Allocation in net offer to public.
43.  (1)  No  person  shall  make  an  application  in  the  net  offer  to  public  category  for  that  number  of specified securities which exceeds the number of specified securities offered to public.
91[(2) In an issue made through the book building process under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 26, the allocation in the net offer to public category shall be as follows: (a) not less than thirty five per cent to retail individual investors; (b) not less than fifteen per cent to non-institutional investors; (c) not more than fifty per cent to qualified institutional buyers, five per cent. of which shall be allocated to mutual funds: Provided that in addition to five per cent allocation available in terms of clause (c), mutual funds shall be eligible for allocation under the balance available for qualified institutional buyers.";] 92[(2A) In an issue made through the book building process under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 26, the allocation in the net offer to public category shall be as follows: (a) not more than ten per cent to retail individual investors; (b) not more than fifteen per cent to non-institutional investors; (c)  not less than seventy  five  per  cent  to  qualified  institutional  buyers,  five  per  cent. of  which shall be allocated to mutual funds: Provided that in addition to five per cent. allocation available in terms of clause (c), mutual funds shall be eligible for allocation under the balance available for qualified institutional buyers.]
(3)  In an issue made through the book building process, the issuer may allocate upto 93[sixty] per cent. of  the  portion  available  for  allocation  to  qualified  institutional  buyers  to  an  anchor  investor  in accordance with the conditions specified in this regard in Schedule XI.
(4)  In an issue made other than through the book building process, allocation in the net offer to public category shall be made as follows: (a)  minimum fifty per cent. to retail individual investors; and (b) remaining to: (i) (ii)  other investors including corporate bodies or institutions, irrespective of the number of individual applicants other than retail individual investors; and specified securities applied for; (c) the  unsubscribed  portion  in  either  of  the  categories  specified  in  clauses  (a)  or  (b)  may  be allocated to applicants in the other category. to more than fifty per cent. on proportionate basis, the retail individual investors shall be allocated that higher percentage. Safety-net arrangement.
44.  An  issuer  may  provide  for  a  safety-net  arrangement  for  the  specified  securities  offered  in  any public issue in consultation with the merchant banker after ascertaining the financial capacity of the person offering the safety-net arrangement, subject to disclosures specified in this regard in Part A of Schedule VIII: Provided that any such arrangement shall provide for an offer to purchase up to a maximum of one thousand specified securities per original resident retail individual allottee at the issue price within a period of six months from the last date of despatch of security certificates or credit of demat account. arrangement  provided  by  the  issuer  under  which  a  person  offers  to  purchase  specified  securities from the original resident retail individual allottees at the issue price. Price stabilisation through green shoe option.
45.  (1)  An  issuer  making  a  public  issue  of  specified  securities  may  provide  green  shoe  option  for stabilising the post listing price of its specified securities, subject to the following: (a) (b) (c) (d) the  issuer  has  been  authorized,  by  a  resolution  passed  in  the  general  meeting  of shareholders  approving  the  public  issue,  to  allot  specified  securities  to  the  stabilising agent, if required, on the expiry of the stabilisation period; the  issuer  has  appointed  a    merchant  banker  or  book  runner,  as  the  case  may  be,  from amongst the merchant bankers appointed by the issuer as a stabilising agent, who shall be responsible for the price stabilisation process; prior to filing the draft offer document with the Board, the issuer and the stabilising agent have entered into an agreement, stating all the terms and conditions relating to the green shoe option including fees charged and expenses to be incurred by the stabilising agent for discharging his responsibilities; prior to filing the offer document with the Board, the stabilising agent has entered into an agreement  with  the  promoters  or  pre-issue  shareholders  or  both  for  borrowing  specified securities  from  them  in  accordance  with  clause  (g)  of  this  sub-regulation,  specifying therein the maximum number of specified securities that may be borrowed for the purpose of  allotment  or  allocation  of  specified  securities  in  excess  of  the  issue  size  (hereinafter referred to as the “over- allotment”), which shall not be in excess of fifteen per cent. of the issue size; subject to clause (d), the lead merchant banker or lead book runner, in consultation with the stabilising agent, shall determine the amount of specified securities to be over-allotted in the public issue; the draft and final offer documents shall contain all material disclosures about the green shoe option specified in this regard in Part A of Schedule VIII; in  case  of  an  initial  public  offer  pre-issue  shareholders  and  promoters  and  in  case  of  a further  public  offer  pre-issue  shareholders  holding  more  than  five  per  cent.  specified securities and promoters, may lend specified securities to the extent of the proposed over- allotment; the specified securities borrowed shall be in dematerialised form and allocation of these securities shall be made pro-rata to all successful applicants. (e) (f) (g) (h)
(2)  For the purpose of stabilisation of post-listing price of the specified securities, the stabilising agent shall  determine  the  relevant  aspects  including  the  timing  of  buying  such  securities,  quantity  to  be bought and the price at which such securities are to be bought from the market.
(3)  The stabilisation process shall be available for a period not exceeding thirty days from the date on which  trading  permission  is  given  by  the  recognised  stock  exchanges  in  respect  of  the  specified securities allotted in the public issue.
(4)  The stabilising agent shall open a special account, distinct from the issue account, with a bank for crediting the monies received from the applicants against the over-allotment and a special account with a  depository  participant  for  crediting  specified  securities  to  be  bought  from  the  market  during  the stabilisation period out of the monies credited in the special bank account.
(5)  The  specified  securities  bought  from  the  market  and  credited  in  the  special  account  with  the depository participant shall be returned to the promoters or pre-issue shareholders immediately, in any case not later than two working days after the end of the stabilization period.
(6)  On  expiry  of  the  stabilisation  period,  if  the  stabilising  agent  has  not  been  able  to  buy  specified securities from the market to the extent of such securities over-allotted, the issuer shall allot specified securities at issue price in dematerialised form to the extent of the shortfall to the special account with the depository participant, within five days of the closure of the stabilisation period and such specified securities shall be returned to the promoters or pre-issue shareholders by the stabilising agent in lieu of the specified securities borrowed from them and the account with the depository participant shall be closed thereafter.
(7)  The  issuer  shall  make  a  listing  application  in  respect  of  the  further  specified  securities  allotted under sub-regulation (6), to all the recognised stock exchanges where the specified securities allotted in  the  public  issue  are  listed  and  the  provisions  of  Chapter  VII  shall  not  be  applicable  to  such allotment.
(8)  The stabilising agent shall remit the monies with respect to the specified securities allotted under sub-regulation (6) to the issuer from the special bank account.
(9)  Any  monies  left  in the  special  bank  account  after  remittance  of  monies  to the  issuer  under  sub- regulation (8) and deduction of expenses incurred by the stabilising agent for the stabilisation process shall  be transferred  to  the  Investor Protection  and  Education  Fund  established  by  the  Board  and the special bank account shall be closed soon thereafter.
(10)  The  stabilising  agent  shall  submit  a  report  to  the  stock  exchange  on  a  daily  basis  during  the stabilisation period and a final report to the Board in the format specified in Schedule XII.
(11)  The stabilising agent shall maintain a register for a period of at least three years from the date of the end of the stabilisation period and such register shall contain the following particulars: (a)  The  names  of    the  promoters  or  pre-issue  shareholders  from  whom the  specified  securities were borrowed and the number of specified securities borrowed from each of them; (b)  The  price,  date  and  time  in  respect  of  each  transaction  effected  in  the  course  of  the stabilisation process; and (c)  The details of allotment made by the issuer on expiry of the stabilisation process. Period of subscription.
46. (1) 94[Except as otherwise provided in these regulations] a public issue shall be kept open for at least three working days but not more than ten working days including the days for which the issue is kept open in case of revision in price band.
(2)  In  case  the  price  band  in  a  public  issue  made  through  the  book  building  process  is  revised,  the bidding (issue) period disclosed in the red herring prospectus shall be extended for a minimum period of three working days: Provided that the total bidding period shall not exceed ten working days. Pre-issue advertisement for public issue.
47. (1) Subject  to  the provisions of section 66 of the Companies Act,  1956, the issuer shall, after registering the red herring prospectus (in case of a book built issue) or prospectus (in case of fixed price  issue)  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies,  make  a  pre-issue  advertisement  in  one  English national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation,  Hindi  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide circulation  and  one  regional  language  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  at  the  place  where  the registered office of the issuer is situated.
(2) The pre-issue advertisement shall be in the format and shall contain the disclosures specified in Part A of Schedule XIII. Issue opening and issue closing advertisement for public issue.
48. An issuer may issue advertisements for issue opening and issue closing advertisements, which shall be in the formats specified in Parts B and C of Schedule XIII. Minimum application value.
49. (1) The issuer shall stipulate in  the offer document, the minimum  application size in  terms  of number  of  specified  securities  which  shall  fall  within  the  range  of  minimum  application  value  of 95[ten thousand rupees to fifteen thousand rupees].
(2)  The issuer shall invite applications in multiples of the minimum application value, an illustration whereof is given in Schedule XIV.
(3)  The minimum sum payable on application shall not be less than twenty five per cent. of the issue price: Provided that in case of an offer for sale, the issue price payable for each specified security shall be brought in at the time of application. to  the  issue  price  of  the  specified  securities  and  not  with  reference  to  the  amount  payable  on application. Allotment procedure and basis of allotment.
50.  (1)  The  allotment  of  specified  securities  to  applicants  other  than  96[retail  individual  investors and]  anchor  investors  shall  be  on  proportionate  basis  within  the  specified  investor  categories  and the  number  of  securities  allotted  shall  be  rounded  off  to  the  nearest  integer,  subject  to  minimum allotment being equal to the minimum application size as determined and disclosed by the issuer: 97[Provided  that  value  of  specified  securities  allotted  to  any  person  in  pursuance  of  reservation made  under  clause  (a)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  or  clause  (a)  of  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  42, shall not exceed 98[two lakhs] rupees.] 99[(1A) The allotment of specified securities to each retail individual investor shall not be less than the minimum bid lot, subject to availability of shares in retail individual investor category, and the remaining available shares, if any, shall be allotted on a proportionate basis.]
(2) The  executive  director  or  managing  director  of  the  designated  stock  exchange  along  with  the post issue lead merchant bankers and registrars to the issue shall ensure that the basis of allotment is finalised in a fair and proper manner in accordance with the allotment procedure as specified in Schedule XV. Utilisation of subscription money.
51. The post-issue lead merchant banker shall ensure that moneys received in respect of the issue are  released  to  the  issuer  in  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  section  73  of  the  Companies  Act,
1956. 100[Annual Updation of Offer Document
51A. The disclosures made in the red herring prospectus while making an initial public offer, shall be  updated  on  an  annual  basis  by  the  issuer  and  shall  be  made  publicly  accessible  in  the  manner specified by the Board.] CHAPTER IV RIGHTS ISSUE Record Date.
52.  (1)  A  listed  issuer  making  a  rights  issue  shall  announce  a  record  date  for  the  purpose  of determining the shareholders eligible to apply for specified securities in the proposed rights issue.
(2)  The issuer shall not withdraw rights issue after announcement of the record date.
(3)  If  the  issuer  withdraws  the  rights  issue  after  announcing  the  record  date,  it  shall  not  make  an application for listing of any of its specified securities on any recognised stock exchange for a period of twelve months from the record date announced under sub-regulation (1): Provided  that  the  issuer  may  seek  listing  of  its  equity  shares  allotted  pursuant  to  conversion  or exchange  of  convertible  securities  issued  prior  to  the  announcement  of  the  record  date,  on  the recognised stock exchange where its securities are listed. Restriction on rights issue.
53. (1) No issuer shall make a rights issue of equity shares  101[***]unless it has made reservation of equity  shares  of  the  same  class  in  favour  of  the  holders  of  102[***]  outstanding  103[compulsorily] convertible debt instruments 104[,if any,] in proportion to the convertible part thereof.
(2) The  equity  shares  105[so]  reserved  for  the  holders  of  fully  or  partially  106[compulsorily] convertible  debt  instruments  shall  be  issued  at  the  time  of  conversion  of  such  convertible  debt instruments  on  the  same  terms  107[at]  which  the  equity  shares  offered  in  the  rights  issue  were issued. Letter of offer, abridged letter of offer, pricing and period of subscription.
54.  (1)  The  abridged  letter  of  offer,  along  with  application  form,  shall  be  dispatched  through registered post or speed  post to  all the existing shareholders at  least  three days before the date of opening of the issue: Provided that the letter of offer shall be given by the issuer or lead merchant banker to any existing shareholder who has made a request in this regard.
(2) The shareholders who have not received the application form may apply in writing on a plain paper, along with the requisite application money.
(3) The shareholders making application otherwise than on the application form shall not renounce their rights and shall not utilise the application form for any purpose including renunciation even if it is received subsequently.
(4) Where  any  shareholder  makes  an  application  on  application  form  as  well as  on  plain  paper, the application is liable to be rejected.
(5) The issue price shall be decided before determining the record date which shall be determined in consultation with the designated stock exchange.
(6)  A  rights  issue  shall  be  open  for  subscription  for  a  minimum  period  of  fifteen  days  and  for  a maximum period of thirty days.
108[(7) The issuer shall give only one payment option out of the following to all the investors— Provided that where the issuer has given the part payment option to investors, 109[the part payment on application shall  not  be  less  than 25%  of  the  issue  price  and] such issuer  shall obtain  the  necessary regulatory approvals to facilitate the same.] Pre-Issue Advertisement for rights issue.
55. (1) The issuer shall issue an advertisement for rights issue disclosing the following: (a) part payment on application with balance money to be paid in calls; or (b) full payment on application: (a) (b) the date of completion of despatch of  abridged letter of offer and the application form; the  centres  other  than  registered  office  of  the  issuer  where  the  shareholders  or  the persons  entitled  to  receive  the  rights  entitlements  may  obtain  duplicate  copies  of  the application forms in case they do not receive the application form within a reasonable time after opening of the rights issue; (c)  a  statement  that  if  the  shareholders  entitled  to  receive  the  rights  entitlements  have neither received the original application forms nor they are in a position to obtain  the duplicate forms, they may make application in writing on a plain paper to subscribe to the rights issue; (d)  a format to enable the shareholders entitled to apply against their rights entitlements, to make the application on a plain paper specifying therein necessary particulars such as name, address,  ratio of rights  issue, issue price,  number of  equity shares held,  ledger folio  numbers,  depository  participant  ID,  client  ID,  number  of  equity  shares  entitled and applied for, additional shares if any, amount to be paid along with application, and particulars of cheque, etc. to be drawn in favour of the issuer’s account; (e)  a  statement  that  the  applications  can  be  directly  sent  by  the  shareholders  entitled  to apply against rights entitlements through registered post together with the application moneys to the issuer's designated official at the address given in the advertisement; (f)  a statement to the effect that if the shareholder makes an application on plain paper and also  on  application  form  both  his  applications  shall  be  liable  to  be  rejected  at  the option of the issuer.
(2) The  advertisement  shall  be  made  in  at  least  one  English  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide circulation,  one  Hindi  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  and  one  regional  language daily newspaper with wide circulation at the place where registered office of the issuer is situated, at least three days before the date of opening of the issue. 110[Reservation for employees alongwith rights issue.
55A.  Subject  to  other applicable provision  of these regulations  the issuer may make reservation for 111[***] employees alongwith rights issue subject to the condition that value of allotment to any employee shall not exceed 112[two lakhs] rupees.] Utilisation of funds raised in rights issue.
56.  The  issuer  shall  utilise  funds  collected  in  rights  issues  after  the  finalisation  of  the  basis  of allotment. CHAPTER V MANNER OF DISCLOSURES IN THE OFFER DOCUMENTS Manner of disclosures in the offer document.
57. (1) The offer document shall contain all material disclosures which are true and adequate so as to enable the applicants to take an informed investment decision.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1): (a) (b) the red-herring prospectus, shelf prospectus and prospectus shall contain: (i) (ii) the disclosures specified in Schedule II of the Companies Act, 1956; and the  disclosures  specified  in  Part  A  of  Schedule  VIII,  subject  to  the  provisions  of Parts B and C thereof. the letter of offer shall contain disclosures as specified in Part E of Schedule VIII113[:] 114[Provided that in the case of a further public offer or a rights issue, the offer  document shall  be  deemed  to  be  in  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  this  regulation,  if  suitable references  are  made  to  the  updated  disclosures  in  the  offer  document  referred  to  in regulation 51A of these regulations.] Abridged prospectus, abridged letter of offer and ASBA.
58.  (1)  The  abridged  prospectus  shall  contain  the  disclosures  115[***]  as  specified  in  Part  D  of Schedule VIII.
(2) The  abridged  letter  of  offer  shall  contain  the  disclosures  as  specified  in  Part  F  of  Schedule VIII.
(3) The abridged prospectus and abridged letter of offer shall not contain any matter extraneous to the contents of the offer document.
(4) Every application form  including ASBA form  distributed by the issuer or any other person in relation to an issue shall be accompanied by a copy of the abridged prospectus or abridged letter of offer, as the case may be.
(5) 116[In all, - (i)  Public  issues,  the  issuer  shall  accept  bids  using  only  ASBA  facility  in  the  manner specified by the Board; (ii) Rights issues, where not more than one payment option is given, the issuer shall provide the facility of ASBA in accordance with the procedure and eligibility criteria specified by the Board: Provided that in case of qualified institutional buyers and non-institutional investors the issuer shall accept bids using ASBA facility only.]
117[(6) ***] CHAPTER VI GENERAL OBLIGATIONS OF ISSUER AND INTERMEDIARIES WITH RESPECT TO PUBLIC ISSUE AND RIGHTS ISSUE Prohibition on payment of incentives.
59. No person connected with the issue shall offer any incentive, whether direct or indirect, in any manner, whether in cash or kind or services or otherwise to any person for making an application for allotment of specified securities: (b) holds  the  shares  of  the  issuer  in  dematerialised  form  as  on  the  record  date  and  has  applied  for Provided  that  nothing  contained  in  this  regulation  shall  apply  to  fees  or  commission  for  services rendered in relation to the issue. includes a person connected with the distribution of the issue. Public communications, publicity materials, advertisements and research reports.
60.  (1)  Any  public  communication  including  advertisement  and  publicity  material  issued  by  the issuer or research report  made by the issuer or any intermediary  concerned with  the issue or their associates  shall  contain  only  factual  information  and  shall  not  contain  projections,  estimates, conjectures, etc. or any matter extraneous to the contents of the offer document.
(2) All public communications and publicity material issued or published in any media during the period commencing from the date of the meeting of the board of directors of the issuer in which the public issue or rights  issue is  approved till the date of filing draft offer document with  the Board shall be consistent with its past practices: Provided  that  where  such  public  communication  or  publicity  material  is  not  consistent  with  the past  practices  of  the  issuer,  it  shall  be  prominently  displayed  or  announced  in  such  public communication or publicity material that the issuer is proposing to make a public or rights issue of specified securities in the near future and is in the process of filing a draft offer document with the Board.
(3) All public communications and publicity material issued or published in any media during the period  commencing  from  the  date  of  filing  draft  offer  document  with  the  Board    till  the  date  of allotment of securities offered in the issue, shall prominently disclose that: (a) (b) the issuer is proposing to make a public issue or rights issue of the specified securities and has filed a draft offer document with the Board or has filed the red herring prospectus or prospectus with the Registrar of Companies or the letter of offer with the designated stock exchange, as the case may be. the draft offer document, red herring prospectus or final offer document, as the case may be, is available on the website of the Board, lead merchant bankers or lead book runners. 118[Provided  that  requirements  of  this  sub-regulation  shall  not  be  applicable  in  case  of  product advertisements of the issuer.]
(4) The issuer shall make prompt, true and fair disclosure of all material developments which take place  during  the  following  period  mentioned  in  this  sub-regulation,  relating  to  its  business  and securities and also relating to the business and securities of its subsidiaries, group companies, etc., which may have a material effect on the issuer, by issuing public notices in all the newspapers in which  the  issuer  had  issued  pre-issue  advertisement  under  regulation  47  or  regulation  55,  as  the case may be: (a) (b) in case of public issue, between the date of registering final prospectus or the red herring prospectus, as the case may be, with the Registrar of Companies, and the date of allotment of specified securities; in case of a rights issue, between the date of filing the letter of offer with the designated stock exchange and the date of allotment of the specified securities.
(5) The issuer shall not, directly or indirectly, release, during any conference or at any other time, any material or information which is not contained in the offer document.
(6) In respect of all public communications, issue advertisements and publicity materials, the issuer shall obtain approval from the lead merchant bankers responsible for marketing the issue and shall also make copies of all issue related materials available with the lead merchant bankers at least till the allotment is completed.
(7)  Any  advertisement  or  research  report  issued  or  caused  to  be  issued  by  an  issuer,  any intermediary concerned with the issue or their associates shall comply with the following: (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) it shall be truthful, fair and shall not  be manipulative or deceptive or distorted and it shall not contain any statement, promise or forecast which is untrue or misleading; if it reproduces or purports to reproduce any information contained in an offer document, it shall reproduce such information in full and disclose all relevant facts and not be restricted to select extracts relating to that information; it shall be set forth in a clear, concise and understandable language; it  shall  not  include  any  issue  slogans  or  brand  names  for  the  issue  except  the  normal commercial name of the issuer or commercial brand names of its products already in use; if it presents any financial data, data for the past three years shall also be included alongwith particulars relating to sales, gross profit, net profit, share capital, reserves, earnings per share, dividends and the book values; (f)  no advertisement shall use extensive technical, legal terminology or complex language and excessive details which may distract the investor; (g)  no issue advertisement shall contain statements which promise or guarantee rapid increase in profits; (h)  no  issue  advertisement  shall  display  models,  celebrities,  fictional  characters,  landmarks  or caricatures or the likes; (i)  no  issue  advertisement  shall  appear  in  the  form  of  crawlers  (the  advertisements  which  run simultaneously with the programme in a narrow strip at the bottom of the television screen) on television; in any issue advertisement on television screen, the risk factors shall not be scrolled on the television  screen  and  the  advertisement  shall  advise  the  viewers  to  refer  to  the  red  herring prospectus or other offer document for details; (j) (k)  no  issue  advertisement  shall  contain  slogans,  expletives  or  non-factual  and  unsubstantiated (l) titles; if  an  advertisement  or  research  report    contains  highlights,  it  shall  also  contain  risk  factors with equal importance in all respects including print size of not less than point seven size; (m)  an issue advertisement displayed on a billboard shall not contain information other than that specified in Parts A, B and C of Schedule XIII, as applicable; (n)  an  issue  advertisement  which  contains  highlights  or  information  other  than  the  details contained  in  the  format  as  specified  in  Parts  A  and  B  of  Schedule  XIII  shall  contain  risk factors.
(8) No advertisement shall be issued giving any impression that the issue has been fully subscribed or oversubscribed during the period the issue is open for subscription.
(9)  An announcement regarding closure of issue shall be made only after the lead merchant banker(s) is satisfied that at least ninety per cent. of the offer through offer document has been subscribed and a certificate has been obtained to that effect from the registrar to the issue: Provided that such announcement shall not be made before the date on which the issue is to be closed.
(10)  No  advertisement  or  distribution  material  with  respect  to  the  issue  shall  contain  any  offer  of incentives, whether direct or indirect, in any manner, whether in cash or kind or services or otherwise.
(11)  No product advertisement shall contain any reference, directly or indirectly, to the performance of the issuer during the period commencing from the date of the resolution of the board of directors of the  issuer  approving  the  public  issue  or  rights  issue  till  the  date  of  allotment  of  specified  securities offered in such issue.
(12)  A research report may be prepared only on the basis of information, disclosed to the public by the issuer by updating the offer document or otherwise.
(13)  No  selective  or  additional  information  or  information  which  is  extraneous  to  the  information disclosed to the public through the offer document or otherwise, shall be given by the issuer or any member of the issue management team or syndicate to any particular section of the investors or to any research analyst in any manner whatsoever, including at road shows, presentations, in research or sales reports or at bidding centres.
119[(14) The merchant bankers shall submit a compliance certificate in the format specified in Part D  of  Schedule  XIII,  for  the  period  between  the  date  of  filing  the  draft  offer  document  with  the Board  and  the  date  of  closure  of  the  issue,  in  respect  of  news  reports  appearing  in  any  of  the following media: (a) newspapers mentioned in sub-regulation (3) of regulation 9; (b) major business magazines; (c) print and electronic media controlled by a media group where the media group has a private treaty/shareholders’ agreement with the issuer or promoters of the issuer.] (I)  “public  communication  or  publicity  material”  includes  corporate,  product  and  issue advertisements of the issuer, interviews by its promoters, directors, duly authorized employees or  representatives  of  the  issuer,  documentaries  about  the  issuer  or  its  promoters,  periodical reports and press releases. (II)  An issue advertisement shall be considered to be misleading, if it contains: (a)  Statements  made  about  the  performance  or  activities  of  the  issuer  without  necessary explanatory  or  qualifying  statements,  which  may  give  an  exaggerated  picture  of  such performance or activities. (b)  An inaccurate portrayal of past performance or its portrayal in a manner which implies that past gains or income will be repeated in the future. Copies of offer documents to be available to public.
61.  (1)  The  issuer  and  lead  merchant  bankers  shall  ensure  that  the  contents  of  offer  documents hosted on the websites as required in these regulations are the same as that of their printed versions as filed with the Registrar of Companies, Board and the stock exchanges.
(2) The lead merchant bankers and the recognised stock exchange shall provide copies of the draft offer document and final offer document to the public as and when requested.
(3) The lead merchant bankers or the recognised stock exchange may charge a reasonable sum for providing the copy of the offer document. Redressal of investor grievances.
62. The post-issue lead merchant bankers shall actively associate himself with post-issue activities such  as  allotment,  refund,  despatch  and  giving  instructions  to  syndicate  members,  Self  Certified Syndicate  Banks  and  other  intermediaries  and  shall  regularly  monitor  redressal  of  investor grievances arising therefrom. Appointment of Compliance Officer.
63.  The  issuer  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be  responsible  for  monitoring  the compliance of the securities laws and for redressal of investors’ grievances. Act, 1956, the Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the Depositories Act, 1996 and the rules and regulations made thereunder and the regulations, general or special orders, guidelines or circulars made or issued by the Board. Due diligence.
64.  (1)  The  lead  merchant  bankers  shall  exercise  due  diligence  and  satisfy  himself  about  all  the aspects of the issue including the veracity and adequacy of disclosure in the offer documents.
12.11.2010. (2) The lead merchant bankers shall call upon the issuer, its promoters or directors or in case of an offer for sale, the selling shareholders, to  fulfil their obligations as disclosed by them in the offer document and as required in terms of these Regulations.
(3) The post-issue merchant banker shall continue to be responsible for post-issue activities till the subscribers  have  received  the  securities  certificates,  credit  to  their  demat  account  or  refund  of application moneys and the listing agreement is entered into by the issuer with the stock exchange and listing/ trading permission is obtained.
(4) The responsibility of the lead merchant banker shall continue even after the completion of issue process. Post- issue reports.
65. 120[(1) In public issue, the lead merchant banker shall submit final post-issue report as specified in  Part  C  of  Schedule  XVI,  within  seven  days  of  the  date  of  finalization  of  basis  of  allotment  or within seven days of refund of money in case of failure of issue.
(2) In rights issue, the lead merchant banker shall submit post-issue reports as follows:- (a) initial  post  issue  report  as  specified  in  Part  B  of  Schedule  XVI,  within  three  days  of closure of the issue; (b)  final post issue report as specified in Part D of Schedule XVI, within fifteen days of the date of finalization of basis of allotment or within fifteen days of refund of money in case of failure of issue.] The  lead  merchant  banker  shall  submit  a  due  diligence  certificate  as  per  the  format  specified  in Form G of Schedule VI, along with the final post issue report. Post-issue Advertisements.
66.  (1)  The  post-issue  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  advertisement  giving  details  relating  to oversubscription,  basis  of  allotment,  number,  value  and  percentage  of  all  applications  including ASBA, number, value and percentage of successful allottees for all applications  including ASBA, date of completion of despatch of refund orders or instructions to Self Certified Syndicate Banks by the Registrar, date of despatch of certificates and date of filing of listing application, etc. is released within ten days from the date of completion of the various activities in at least one English national daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation,  one  Hindi  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation and  one  regional  language  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  at  the  place  where  registered office of the issuer is situated.
(2) The  post-issue  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  issuer,  advisors,  brokers  or  any  other  entity connected  with  the  issue  do  not  publish  any  advertisement  stating  that  issue  has  been oversubscribed  or  indicating  investors’  response  to  the  issue,  during  the  period  when  the  public issue is still open for subscription by the public. Co-ordination with Intermediaries.
67. (1) The post-issue merchant banker shall maintain close co-ordination with the registrars to the issue and arrange to depute its officers to the offices of various intermediaries at regular intervals after  the  closure  of  the  issue  to  monitor  the  flow  of  applications  from  collecting  bank  branches and/or Self Certified Syndicate Banks, processing of the applications including application form for ASBA and other matters till the basis of allotment is finalised, despatch of security certificates and refund orders are completed and securities are listed.
(2) Any act of omission or commission on the part of any of the intermediaries noticed during such visits shall be duly reported to the Board.
(3) In case there is a devolvement on underwriters, the merchant banker shall ensure that the notice for devolvement containing the obligation of the underwriters is issued within a period of ten days from the date of closure of the issue.
(4) In case of undersubscribed issues, the merchant  banker shall furnish  information  in  respect  of underwriters  who  have  failed  to  meet  their  underwriting  devolvement  to  the  Board  in  the  format specified in Schedule XVII.
(5) The post-issue merchant banker shall confirm  to the bankers to  the issue by way of  copies of listing and trading approvals that all formalities in connection with the issue have been completed and that the banker is free to release the money to the issuer or release the money for refund in case of failure of the issue. Audited financial statements in the offer document.
68.  The  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  the  information  contained  in  the  offer  document  and  the particulars as per audited financial statements in the offer document are not more than six months old from the issue opening date. Other responsibilities.
69.  (1)  The  post-issue  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  the  despatch  of  refund  orders,  allotment letters and share certificates is done by way of registered post or certificate of posting, as may be applicable.
(2) The post-issue merchant banker shall ensure payment of interest  to  the  applicants  for delayed dispatch of allotment letters, refund orders, etc. as per the disclosure made in the offer document.
(3) In  case  of  absence  of  definite  information  about  subscription  figures,  the  issue  shall  be  kept open for the  required number of days to  avoid  any dispute, at  a later date, by the underwriters in respect of their liability.
(4)  The issuer shall ensure that transactions in securities by the promoter and promoter group during the period between the date of registering the offer document with the Registrar of Companies or filing the letter of offer with the designated stock exchange, as the case may be and the date of closure of the issue shall be reported to the recognised stock exchanges where the specified securities of the issuer are listed, within twenty four hours of the transactions. 121[CHAPTER VI-A CONDITIONS AND MANNER OF PROVIDING EXIT OPPORTUNITY TO DISSENTING SHAREHOLDERS Applicability.
69A.  (1)  The  provisions  of  this  Chapter  shall  apply  to  an  exit  offer  made  by  the  promoters  or shareholders  in  control  of  an  issuer  to  the  dissenting  shareholders  in  terms  of  section  13(8)  and section 27(2) of the Companies Act, 2013, in case of change in objects or variation in the terms of contract referred to in the prospectus.
17.02.2016. (2) The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply where there are neither identifiable promoters nor shareholders in control of the listed issuer. Definitions.
69B. For the purpose of this Chapter: (a)  “dissenting  shareholders”  means  those  shareholders  who  have  voted  against  the resolution  for  change  in  objects  or  variation  in  terms  of  a  contract,  referred  to  in  the prospectus of the issuer; (b) “frequently  traded  shares”  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  it  in  the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011. (c)  “relevant  date”  means  date  of  the  board  meeting  in  which  the  proposal  for  change  in objects  or  variation  in  terms  of  a  contract,  referred  to  in  the  prospectus  is  approved, before seeking shareholders’ approval. Conditions for exit offer.
69C.  The  promoters  or  shareholders  in  control  shall  make  the  exit  offer  in  accordance  with  the provisions of this Chapter, to the dissenting shareholders, if: (a)  the public issue has opened after April 1, 2014; and (b) the proposal for change in objects or variation in terms of a contract, referred to in the prospectus  is  dissented  by  at  least  ten  per  cent.  of  the  shareholders  who  voted  in  the general meeting; and (c)  the amount to be utilized for the objects for which the prospectus was issued is less than seventy five per cent. of the amount raised (including the amount earmarked for general corporate purposes as disclosed in the offer document). Eligibility of shareholders for availing the exit offer
69D.  Only  those  dissenting  shareholders  of  the  issuer  who  are  holding  shares  as  on  the  relevant date shall be eligible to avail the exit offer made under this Chapter. Exit offer price.
69E. The ‘exit price’ payable to the dissenting shareholders shall be the highest of the following: (a)  the  volume-weighted  average  price  paid  or  payable  for  acquisitions,  whether  by  the promoters  or  shareholders  having  control  or  by  any  person  acting  in  concert  with  them, during the fifty-two weeks immediately preceding the relevant date; (b) the  highest  price  paid  or  payable  for  any  acquisition,  whether  by  the  promoters  or shareholders  having  control  or  by  any  person  acting  in  concert  with  them,  during  the twenty-six weeks immediately preceding the relevant date; (c)  the volume-weighted average market price of such shares for a period of sixty trading days immediately preceding the relevant date as traded on the recognised stock exchange where the maximum volume of trading in the shares of the issuer are recorded during such period, provided such shares are frequently traded; (d) where  the  shares  are  not  frequently  traded,  the  price  determined  by  the  promoters  or shareholders  having  control  and  the  merchant  banker  taking  into  account  valuation parameters including book value, comparable trading multiples, and such other parameters as are customary for valuation of shares of such issuers. Manner of providing exit to dissenting shareholders.
69F.  (1)  The  notice  proposing  the  passing  of    special  resolution  for  changing  the  objects  of  the issue and varying  the terms of contract, referred to in the prospectus shall also contain information about the exit offer to the dissenting shareholders.
(2)  In  addition  to  the  disclosures  required  under  the  provisions  of  section 102  of  the  Companies Act,  2013  read  with  rule  32  of  the  Companies  (Incorporation)  Rules,  2014  and  rule  7  of  the Companies (Prospectus and Allotment of Securities) Rules, 2014 and any other applicable law, a statement to the effect that the promoters or the shareholders having control shall provide an exit opportunity  to  the  dissenting  shareholders  shall  also  be  included  in  the  explanatory  statement  to the notice for passing special resolution.
(3)  After  passing  of  the  special  resolution,  the  issuer  shall  submit  the  voting  results  to  the recognised stock exchange(s), in terms of the provisions of regulation 44(3) of the Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
(4) The issuer shall also  submit the list of dissenting shareholders, as certified by its compliance officer, to the recognised stock exchange(s).
(5) The promoters or shareholders in control, shall appoint a merchant banker registered with the Board and finalize the exit offer price in accordance with these regulations.
(6)  The  issuer  shall  intimate  the  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  about  the  exit  offer  to  dissenting shareholders and the price at which such offer is being given.
(7) The recognised stock exchange(s) shall immediately on receipt of such intimation disseminate the same to public within one working day.
(8) To ensure security for performance of their obligations, the promoters or shareholders having control, as  applicable, shall create  an escrow account  which may be interest  bearing and deposit the  aggregate  consideration  in  the  account  at  least  two  working  days  prior  to  opening  of  the tendering period.
(9)  The  tendering  period  shall  start  not  later  than  seven  working  days  from  the  passing  of  the special resolution and shall remain open for ten working days.
(10)  The  dissenting  shareholders  who  have  tendered  their  shares  in  acceptance  of  the  exit  offer shall have the option to withdraw such acceptance till the date of closure of the tendering period.
(11)  The  promoters  or  shareholders  having  control  shall  facilitate  tendering  of  shares  by  the shareholders  and  settlement  of  the  same  through  the  recognised  stock  exchange  mechanism  as specified by SEBI for the purpose of takeover, buy-back and delisting.
(12) The promoters or shareholders having control shall, within a period of ten working days from the last date of the tendering period, make payment of consideration to the dissenting shareholders who have accepted the exit offer.
(13)  Within  a  period  of  two  working  days  from  the  payment  of  consideration,  the  issuer  shall furnish  to  the  recognised  stock  exchange(s),  disclosures  giving  details  of  aggregate  number  of shares tendered, accepted, payment of consideration and the post-offer shareholding pattern of the issuer  and  a  report  by  the  merchant  banker  that  the  payment  has  been  duly  made  to  all  the dissenting shareholders whose shares have been accepted in the exit offer. Offer not to exceed maximum permissible non-public shareholding.
69G.  In  the  event,  the  shares  accepted  in  the  exit  offer  were  such  that  the  shareholding  of  the promoters  or  shareholders  in  control,  taken  together  with  persons  acting  in  concert  with  them pursuant  to  completion  of  the  exit  offer  results  in  their  shareholding  exceeding  the  maximum permissible non-public shareholding, the promoters or shareholders in control, as applicable, shall be required to bring down the non-public shareholding to the level specified and within the time permitted under Securities Contract (Regulation) Rules, 1957.” CHAPTER VII PREFERENTIAL ISSUE Chapter VII not to apply in certain cases.
70. (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply where the preferential issue of equity shares is made: (a)  pursuant to conversion of loan or option attached to convertible debt instruments in terms of sub-sections (3) and (4) of sections 81 of the Companies Act, 1956 122[or sub-section
(3) and (4) of section 62 of the Companies Act, 2013, whichever applicable]; (b)  pursuant  to  a  scheme  approved  by  a  High  Court  under  section  391  to  394  of  the Companies Act, 1956 114[or a Tribunal under sections 230 to 234 of the Companies Act, 2013, whichever applicable Provided that the pricing provisions of this Chapter shall apply to the issuance of shares under  schemes  mentioned  in  clause  (b)  in  case  of  allotment  of  shares  only  to  a  select group of shareholders or shareholders of unlisted companies pursuant to such schemes;] in terms of the rehabilitation scheme approved by the Board  of Industrial and Financial Reconstruction under the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 114[or 123[the  resolution  plan  approved  by]  the  Tribunal  under  the  Insolvency  and  Bankruptcy Code, 2016, whichever applicable]: (c) 124[Provided  that  the  lock-in  provisions  of  this  Chapter  shall  apply  to  preferential  issue  of  equity shares mentioned in clause (c).]
(2)  The  provisions  of  this  Chapter  relating  to  pricing  and  lock-in  shall  not  apply  to  equity  shares allotted  to  any  financial  institution  within  the  meaning  of  sub-clauses  (ia)  and  (ii)  of  clause  (h)  of section 2 of the Recovery of Debts due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (51 of 1993).
(3) The provisions of regulation 73 and regulation 76 shall not apply to a preferential issue of equity shares and compulsorily convertible debt instruments, whether fully or partly, where the Board has granted relaxation to the issuer in terms of regulation 29A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997  125[or regulation 11 of the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) Regulations,  2011,  whichever  applicable],  if  adequate  disclosures  about  the  plan  and  process
15.02.2017.
14.8.2017.
13.04.2010.  Prior to its substitution, proviso read as under: “Provided that the lock-in provisions of this Chapter shall apply to such preferential issue of equity shares.”
15.02.2017. proposed  to  be  followed  for  identifying  the  allottees  are  given  in  the  explanatory  statement  to notice for the general meeting of shareholders.
126[(4)  The  provisions  of sub-regulation  (2) of  regulation 72  and sub-regulation  (6)  of  regulation 78 shall not apply to a preferential issue of specified securities where the proposed allottee is a Mutual Fund  registered  with  the  Board  or  Insurance  Company  registered  with  Insurance  Regulatory  and Development  Authority  127[of  India  or  a  Scheduled  Bank  listed  under  the  Second  Schedule  of  the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 or a Public Financial Institution as defined in clause 72 of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013].]
128[(5) The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply where the preferential issue of specified securities is  made  to  the  lenders  pursuant  to  conversion  of  their  debt,  as  part  of  a  debt  restructuring  scheme implemented in accordance with the guidelines specified by the Reserve Bank of India, subject to the following conditions: (a)  the  guidelines  for  determining  the  conversion  price  have  been  specified  by  the  Reserve Bank  of  India  in  accordance  with  which  the  conversion  price  shall  be  determined  and which shall be in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013; (b)  the  conversion  price  shall  be  certified  by  two  independent  qualified  valuers,  and  for  this purpose ‘valuer’ shall be a person who is registered under section 247 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the relevant Rules framed thereunder: Provided that till such date on which section 247 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the relevant  Rules  come  into  force,  valuer  shall  mean  an  independent  merchant  banker registered  with  the  Board  or  an  independent  chartered  accountant  in  practice  having  a minimum experience of ten years; (c)  specified securities so allotted shall be locked-in for a period of one year from the date of their allotment: Provided that for the purpose of transferring the control, the lenders may transfer the specified  securities  allotted  to  them  before  completion  of  the  lock-in  period  subject  to continuation of the lock-in on such securities for the remaining period, with the transferee; (d)  the lock-in of equity shares allotted pursuant to conversion of convertible securities issued on preferential basis shall be reduced to the extent the convertible securities have already been locked-in; (e)  the  applicable  provisions  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  are  complied  with,  including  the requirement of special resolution.] (b) (c) (d)
129[(6)  The  provisions  of  this  Chapter  shall  not  apply  where  the  preferential  issue,  if  any,  of specified  securities  is  made  to  person(s)  at  the  time  of  lenders  selling  their  holding  of  specified securities  or  enforcing  change  in  ownership  in  favour  of  such  person(s)  pursuant  to  a  debt restructuring scheme implemented in accordance with the guidelines specified by the Reserve Bank of India, subject to the following conditions: (a)  the guidelines for determining the issue price have been specified by the Reserve Bank of India in accordance with which the issue price shall be determined and which shall be in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013; (b) the  issue  price  shall  be  certified  by  two  independent  qualified  valuers,  and  for  this purpose ‘valuer’ shall be a person who is registered under section 247 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the relevant Rules framed thereunder: Provided that till such date on  which section 247 of the Companies Act,  2013 and the relevant Rules come into force, valuer shall mean an independent merchant banker registered  with  the  Board  or  an  independent  chartered  accountant  in  practice  having  a minimum experience of ten years; (c)  the specified securities so allotted shall be locked-in for a period of at least three years from the date of their allotment; (d) the  lock-in  of  equity  shares  allotted  pursuant  to  conversion  of  convertible  securities issued on preferential basis shall be reduced to the extent the convertible securities have already been locked-in; (e)  a special resolution has been passed by shareholders of the issuer before the preferential issue; (f)   the issuer shall, in addition to the disclosures required under the Companies Act, 2013 or  any  other  applicable  law,  disclose  the  following  information  pertaining  to  the proposed  allottee(s)  in  the  explanatory  statement  to  the  notice  for  the  general  meeting proposed  for  passing  the  special  resolution  as  stipulated  at  clause  (e)  of  this  sub- regulation: a.  the identity including that of the natural persons who are the ultimate beneficial owners of the shares proposed to be allotted and/ or who ultimately control the proposed allottee(s); b.  the business model; c.  a statement on growth of business over the period of time; d.  summary of audited financials of previous three financial years; e.  track record in turning around companies, if any; f. the proposed roadmap for effecting turnaround of the issuer. (g)  the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 are complied with.] Relevant date.
71. For the purpose of this Chapter, "relevant date" means: (a) in case of preferential issue of equity shares, the date thirty days prior to the date on which the meeting of shareholders is held to consider the proposed preferential issue: Provided that in case of preferential issue of equity shares pursuant to a scheme approved under the Corporate Debt Restructuring framework of Reserve Bank of India, the date of approval of the Corporate Debt Restructuring Package shall be the relevant date. in case of preferential issue of convertible securities, either the relevant date referred to in clause (a) of this regulation or a date thirty days prior to the date on which the holders of the convertible securities become entitled to apply for the equity shares. (b) Weekend/Holiday will be reckoned to be the relevant date.] Frequently traded shares.
131[71A.  For  the  purpose  of  this  Chapter,  “frequently  traded  shares”  means  shares  of  an  issuer,  in which  the  traded  turnover  on  any  stock  exchange  during  the  twelve  calendar  months  preceding  the relevant date, is at least ten per cent of the total number of shares of such class of shares of the issuer: Provided  that  where  the  share  capital  of  a  particular  class  of  shares  of  the  issuer  is  not  identical throughout such period, the weighted average number of total shares of such class of the issuer shall represent the total number of shares.] Conditions for preferential issue.
72. (1) A listed issuer may make a preferential issue of specified securities, if: (a)  a special resolution has been passed by its shareholders; (b)  all  the  equity  shares,  if  any,  held  by  the  proposed  allottees  in  the  issuer  are  in dematerialised form; the issuer is in compliance with the conditions for continuous listing of equity shares as specified in the listing  agreement  with the  recognised  stock  exchange  where  the  equity shares of the issuer are listed; the issuer has obtained the Permanent Account Number of the proposed allottees. (c) (d)
(2)  The issuer shall not make preferential issue of specified securities to any person who has sold any equity shares of the issuer during the six months preceding the relevant date: Provided that in respect of the preferential issue of equity shares and compulsorily convertible debt instruments,  whether  fully  or  partly,  the  Board  may  grant  relaxation  from  the  requirements  of  this sub-regulation,  if  the  Board  has  granted  relaxation  in  terms  of  regulation  29A  of  the  Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997 to such preferential allotment. equity  shares  in  the  issuer  during  the  six  months  preceding  the  relevant  date,  the  promoter(s)  and promoter group shall be ineligible for allotment of specified securities on preferential basis.
(3)  Where  any  person  belonging  to  promoter(s)  or  the  promoter  group  has  previously  subscribed to warrants of an issuer but failed to exercise the warrants, the promoter(s) and promoter group shall be ineligible for issue of specified securities of such issuer on preferential basis for a period of one year from: (a) the date of expiry of the tenure of the warrants due to non-exercise of the option to convert; or (b) the date of cancellation of the warrants, as the case may be.] Disclosures.
73.  (1)  The issuer shall, in addition to the disclosures required under section 173 of the Companies Act,  1956  or  any  other  applicable    law,  disclose  the  following  in  the  explanatory  statement  to  the notice for the general  meeting proposed for passing special resolution: (a) (b) the objects of the preferential issue; the  proposal  of  the  promoters,  directors  or  key  management  personnel  of  the  issuer  to subscribe to the offer;
30.01.2012.
25.08.2012.
12.11.2010. (c) (d) (e) the shareholding pattern of the issuer before and after the preferential issue; the time within which the preferential issue shall be completed; the identity of 133[the natural persons who are the ultimate beneficial owners of the shares proposed  to  be  allotted  and/or  who  ultimately  control]  the  proposed  allottees,  the percentage  of  post  preferential  issue  capital  that  may  be  held  by  them  and  change  in control, if any, in the issuer consequent to the preferential issue 134[:] 135[Provided that  if  there  is  any  listed  company,  mutual  fund,  bank  or  insurance company in the chain of ownership of the proposed allottee, no further disclosure will be necessary.] (f)  an  undertaking  that  the  issuer  shall  re-compute  the  price  of  the  specified  securities  in terms of the provision of these regulations where it is required to do so; (g)  an undertaking that if the amount payable on account of the re-computation of  price is not  paid  within  the  time  stipulated  in  these  regulations,  the  specified  securities  shall continue to be locked- in till the time such amount is paid by the allottees. 136[(h)  disclosures, similar to disclosures specified in Part G of Schedule VIII, if the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a wilful defaulter.]
(2)  The issuer shall place a copy of the certificate of its statutory auditor before the general meeting of the shareholders, considering the proposed preferential issue, certifying that the issue is being made in accordance with the requirements of these regulations.
(3) Where  specified  securities  are  issued  on  a  preferential  basis  to  promoters,  their  relatives, associates  and  related  entities  for  consideration  other  than  cash,  the  valuation  of  the  assets  in consideration  for  which  the  equity  shares  are  issued  shall  be  done  by  an  independent  qualified valuer, which shall be submitted to the recognised stock exchanges where the  equity shares of the issuer are listed: Provided  that  if  the  recognised  stock  exchange  is  not  satisfied  with  the  appropriateness  of  the valuation, it may get the valuation done by any other valuer and for this purpose it may obtain any information, as deemed necessary, from the issuer.
(4)  The  special  resolution  shall  specify  the  relevant  date  on  the  basis  of  which  price  of  the  equity shares to be allotted on conversion or exchange of convertible securities shall be calculated. assigned to it under clause (r) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2002. Allotment pursuant to special resolution.
74. (1) Allotment pursuant to the special resolution shall be completed within a period of fifteen days from the date of passing of such resolution: Provided  that  where  any  application  for  exemption  from  the  applicability  of  the  Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997 or any approval  or  permission  by  any  regulatory  authority  or  the  Central  Government  for  allotment  is pending, the period of fifteen days shall be counted from the date of order on such application or the date of approval or permission, as the case may be: Provided further that where the Board has granted relaxation to the issuer in terms of regulation 29A of SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997, the preferential issue of equity shares and compulsorily convertible debt instruments, whether fully or partly, shall be made by it within such time as may be specified by the Board in its order granting the relaxation: Provided  further  that  requirement  of  allotment  within  fifteen  days  shall  not  apply  to  allotment  of specified securities on preferential basis pursuant to a scheme of corporate debt restructuring as per the corporate debt restructuring framework specified by the Reserve Bank of India.
(2)  If the allotment of specified securities is not completed within fifteen days from the date of special resolution, a fresh special resolution shall be passed and the relevant date for determining the price of specified  securities  under  this  Chapter  will  be  taken  with  reference  to  the  date  of  latter  special resolution.
137[(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this regulation, where a preferential allotment is made that attracts an obligation to make an open offer for shares of the issuer under Securities and Exchange Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares and  Takeovers)  Regulation,  2011,  and  there is  no offer made  under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 20 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulation, 2011, the period of fifteen days shall be counted from the expiry of the period specified in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 20 or date of receipt of  all  statutory  approvals  required  for  the  completion  of  an  open  offer  under  the  Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulation, 2011: Provided that if an offer is made  under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 20 of the Securities and Exchange Board of  India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulation, 2011, the period of fifteen days shall be counted from the expiry of the offer period as defined in  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and Takeovers) Regulation, 2011: Provided further that the provisions of this sub-regulation shall not apply  to an offer made under  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  20  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulation, 2011, pursuant to a preferential allotment.” ]
138[(4) Allotment shall only be made in dematerialised form. equity  shares  to  be  allotted  pursuant  to  exercise  of  option  attached  to  warrant  or  conversion  of convertible securities.] Tenure of convertible securities.
75.  The  tenure  of the  convertible  securities  of  the  issuer  shall not  exceed  eighteen  months  from  the date of their allotment. Pricing of equity shares 139[- Frequently traded shares].
76. (1) If  the equity shares of the issuer have been listed on a recognised stock exchange for a period of  140[twenty six weeks] or more as on the relevant date, the equity shares shall be allotted at a price not less than higher of the following: (a)  The average of the weekly high and low of the 141[volume weighted average price] of the related equity shares quoted on the recognised stock exchange during the  142[twenty six weeks] preceding the relevant date; or (b)  The average of the weekly high and low of the  143[volume weighted average prices] of the  related  equity  shares  quoted  on  a  recognised  stock  exchange  during  the  two  weeks preceding the relevant date.
(2)  If  the equity shares of the issuer have been listed on a recognised stock exchange for a period of less than 144[twenty six weeks] as on the relevant date, the equity shares shall be allotted  at a price not less than the higher of the following: (a) (b) (c) the price at which equity shares were issued by the issuer in its initial public offer or the value per share arrived at in a scheme of arrangement under sections 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956, pursuant to which the equity shares of the issuer were listed, as the case may be; or the  average  of  the  weekly  high  and  low  of  the  145[volume  weighted  average  prices]  of  the related equity shares quoted on the recognised stock exchange during the period shares have been listed preceding the relevant date; or the average of the weekly high and low of the  146[volume weighted average   prices] of the related equity shares quoted on a recognised stock exchange during the two weeks preceding the relevant date.
(3) Where the price of the equity shares is determined in terms of sub-regulation (2), such price shall be  recomputed  by  the  issuer  on  completion  of  147[twenty  six  weeks]  from  the  date  of  listing  on  a recognised stock exchange with reference to the average of the weekly high and low of the 148[volume weighted average prices] of the related equity shares quoted on the recognised stock exchange during these 149[twenty six weeks] and if such recomputed price is higher than the price paid on allotment, the difference shall be paid by the allottees to the issuer.
(4)  Any preferential issue of specified securities, to qualified institutional buyers not exceeding five in number,  shall  be  made  at  a  price  not  less  than  the  average  of  the  weekly  high  and  low  of  the 150[volume  weighted  average  prices]  of  the  related  equity  shares  quoted  on  a  recognised  stock exchange during the two weeks preceding the relevant date. exchanges in which the equity shares are listed and in which the highest trading volume in respect of the equity shares of the issuer has been recorded during the preceding  151[twenty six weeks] prior to the relevant date. Pricing of equity shares – Infrequently traded shares.
152[76A. Where the shares are not frequently traded, the price determined by the issuer shall take into account  valuation  parameters  including  book  value,  comparable  trading  multiples,  and  such  other parameters as are customary for valuation of shares of such companies: Provided that the issuer shall submit a certificate stating that the issuer is in compliance of this regulation, obtained from an independent merchant banker or an independent chartered accountant in practice having a minimum experience of ten years, to the stock exchange where the equity shares of the issuer are listed. Adjustments in pricing - Frequently or Infrequently traded shares
76B. The price determined for preferential issue in accordance with regulation 76 or regulation 76A, shall be subject to appropriate adjustments, if the issuer : (a) makes an issue of equity shares by way of capitalization of profits or reserves, other than by way of a dividend on shares; (b) makes a rights issue of equity shares; (c) consolidates its outstanding equity shares into a smaller number of shares; (d) divides its outstanding equity shares including by way of stock split; (e) re-classifies any of its equity shares into other securities of the issuer; (f) is involved in such other similar events or circumstances, which in the opinion of the concerned stock exchange, requires adjustments.] Payment of consideration.
77. (1) Full consideration of specified securities other than warrants issued under this Chapter shall be paid by the allottees at the time of allotment of such specified securities: Provided that in case of a preferential issue of specified securities pursuant to a scheme of corporate debt restructuring as per the corporate debt restructuring framework specified by the Reserve Bank of India, the allottee may pay the consideration in terms of such scheme.
(2)  An amount equivalent to at least twenty five per cent. of the consideration determined in terms of regulation 76  shall be paid against each warrant on the date of allotment of warrants.
(3)  The  balance  seventy  five  per  cent.  of the  consideration shall  be  paid  at the  time of  allotment of equity shares pursuant to exercise of option against each such warrant by the warrant holder.
(4)  In  case  the  warrant  holder  does  not  exercise  the  option  to  take  equity  shares  against  any  of  the warrants held by him, the consideration paid in respect of such warrant in terms of sub-regulation (2) shall be forfeited by the issuer.
153[(5) The issuer shall ensure that the consideration of specified securities, if paid in cash, shall be received from respective allottee's bank account.
(6)  The  issuer  shall  submit  a  certificate  of  the  statutory  auditor  to  the  stock  exchange  where  the equity  shares  of  the  issuer  are  listed  stating  that  the  issuer  is  in  compliance  of  sub-regulation  (5) and the relevant documents thereof are maintained by the issuer as on the date of certification. ] Lock-in of specified securities.
78.  (1)  The specified securities allotted on preferential basis to promoter or promoter group and the equity shares allotted pursuant to exercise of options attached to warrants issued on preferential basis to promoter or promoter group, shall be locked-in for a period of three years from 154[date of trading approval granted for] the specified securities or equity shares allotted pursuant to exercise of the option attached to warrant, as the case may be: Provided that not more than twenty per cent. of the total capital of the issuer shall be locked-in for three years from the date of 155[trading approval]: Provided further that equity shares allotted in excess of the twenty per cent. shall be locked-in for one year  from  the  date  of  156[trading  approval]  pursuant  to  exercise  of  options  or  otherwise,  as  the  case may be.
(2)  The specified securities allotted on preferential basis to persons other than promoter and promoter group  and  the  equity  shares  allotted  pursuant  to  exercise  of  options  attached  to  warrants  issued  on preferential basis to such persons shall be locked in for a period of one year from the date of 157[trading approval].
(3)  The  lock-in  of  equity  shares  allotted  pursuant  to  conversion  of  convertible  securities  other  than warrants,  issued  on  preferential  basis  shall  be  reduced  to  the  extent  the  convertible  securities  have already been locked-in.
(4)  The equity shares issued on preferential basis pursuant to a scheme of corporate debt restructuring as per the Corporate Debt Restructuring framework specified by the Reserve Bank of India shall be locked-in for a period of one year from the 158[trading approval] : Provided  that  partly  paid  up  equity  shares,  if  any,  shall  be  locked-in  from  the  date  of  159[trading approval] and the lock-in shall end on the expiry of one year from the date when such equity shares become fully paid up.
(5)  If the amount payable by the allottee, in case of re-calculation of price under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 76 is not paid till the expiry of lock-in period, the equity shares shall continue to be locked in till such amount is paid by the allottee.
(6)  The entire pre-preferential allotment shareholding of the allottees, if any, shall be locked-in from the relevant date upto a period of six months from the date of 160[trading approval] . (I)  The expression “total capital of the issuer” means: (a)  equity  share  capital  issued  by  way  of  public  issue  or  rights  issue  including  equity  shares issued pursuant to conversion of specified securities which are convertible; and (b)  specified securities issued on a preferential basis to promoter or promoter group. (II)    (a)      For  the  computation  of  twenty  per  cent.  of  the  total  capital  of  the  issuer,  the  amount  of minimum promoters’ contribution held and locked-in, in the past in terms of Securities and Exchange  Board  of  India  (Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection)  Guidelines,  2000  or  these regulations shall be taken into account. (b)   The  minimum  promoters’  contribution  shall  not  again  be  put  under  fresh  lock-in,  even though it is considered for computing the requirement of twenty per cent. of the total capital of the issuer, in case the said minimum promoters’ contribution is free of lock-in at the time of the preferential issue. the latest date when trading approval has been granted by all the recognised stock exchanges where the equity shares of the issuer are listed, for specified securities allotted as per the provisions of this Chapter.] Transferability of locked-in specified securities and warrants issued on preferential basis.
79.  163[(1)]  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial Acquisition of shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997, specified securities held by promoters and locked-in  in  terms  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  78  may  be  transferred  among  promoters  or promoter group or to a new promoter or persons in control of the issuer: Provided that lock-in on such specified securities shall continue for the remaining period with the transferee.
164[(2) The specified securities allotted on preferential basis shall not be transferred by the allottee till trading approval is granted for such securities by all the recognised stock exchanges where the equity shares of the issuer are listed.] CHAPTER VIII QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONS PLACEMENT Applicability.
80.  The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to a qualified institutions placement made by a listed issuer. Definitions.
81. For the purpose of this Chapter: (a)  “eligible securities” include equity shares, non-convertible debt instruments along with warrants and convertible securities other than warrants; (b)  “qualified  institutions  placement”  means  allotment  of  eligible  securities  by  a  listed  issuer  to qualified institutional buyers on private placement basis in terms of these regulations; (c)  "relevant date" means: (i) (ii) in case of allotment of equity shares, the date of the meeting in which the board of directors of the issuer or the committee of directors duly authorised by the board of directors of the issuer decides to open the proposed issue; in case of allotment of eligible convertible securities, either the date of the meeting in which the  board  of  directors  of  the  issuer  or  the  committee  of  directors  duly  authorised  by  the board of directors of the issuer decides to open the issue of such convertible securities or the date  on  which  the  holders  of  such  convertible  securities  become  entitled  to  apply  for  the equity shares. Conditions for qualified institutions placement.
82. A listed issuer may make qualified institutions placement if it satisfies the following conditions: (a)  a  special  resolution  approving  the  qualified  institutions  placement  has  been  passed  by  its shareholders; (b) the  equity  shares  of  the  same  class,  which  are  proposed  to  be  allotted  through  qualified institutions  placement  or  pursuant  to  conversion  or  exchange  of  eligible  securities  offered through qualified institutions placement, have been listed on a recognised stock exchange having nation  wide  trading  terminal  for  a  period  of  at  least  one  year  prior  to  the  date  of  issuance  of notice to its shareholders for convening the meeting to pass the special resolution: Provided  that  where  an  issuer,  being  a  transferee  company  in  a  scheme  of  merger,  de-merger, amalgamation  or  arrangement  sanctioned  by  a  High  Court  under  sections  391  to  394  of  the Companies  Act,  1956,  makes  qualified  institutions  placement,  the  period  for  which  the  equity shares of the same class of the transferor company were listed on a stock exchange having nation wide trading terminals shall also be considered for the purpose of computation of the period of one year. 165[166[***]] (d)   In the special resolution, it shall be, among other relevant matters, specified that the allotment is proposed to be made through qualified institutions placement and the relevant date referred to in sub-clause (ii) of clause (c) of regulation 81 shall also be specified. (Regulation) Rules, 1957. Appointment of merchant banker.
83. (1) A qualified institutions placement shall be managed by merchant banker(s) registered with the Board who shall exercise due diligence.
(2) The  merchant  banker  shall,  while  seeking  in-principle  approval  for  listing  of  the  eligible securities  issued  under  qualified  institutions  placement,  furnish  to  each  stock  exchange  on  which the  same  class  of  equity  shares  of  the  issuer  are  listed,  a  due  diligence  certificate  stating  that  the eligible  securities  are  being  issued  under  qualified  institutions  placement  and  that  the  issuer complies with requirements of this Chapter. Placement Document:
84. (1) The qualified institutions placement shall be made on the basis of a placement document which shall contain all material information, including those specified in Schedule XVIII 167[and disclosures similar to disclosures specified in Part G of Schedule VIII shall be made, if applicable].
(2)  The placement document shall be serially numbered and copies shall be circulated only to select investors.
(3)  The issuer shall, while seeking in-principle approval from the recognised stock exchange, furnish a copy  of  the  placement  document,  a  certificate  confirming  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  this Chapter along with any other documents required by the stock exchange.
(4)  The placement document shall also be placed on the website of the concerned stock exchange and of  the  issuer  with  a  disclaimer  to  the  effect  that  it  is  in  connection  with  a  qualified  institutions placement and that no offer is being made to the public or to any other category of investors. 168[***] Pricing.
85. (1) The qualified institutions placement shall be made at a price not less than the average of the weekly high and low of the closing prices of the equity shares of the same class quoted on the stock exchange during the two weeks preceding the relevant date169[:] 170[Provided  that  the  issuer  may  offer  a  discount  of  not  more  than  five  per  cent.  on  the  price  so calculated for the qualified institutions placement, subject to approval of shareholders as specified in clause (a) of regulation 82 of   these regulations.]
(2) Where eligible securities are convertible into or exchangeable with equity shares of the issuer, the issuer shall determine the price of such equity shares allotted pursuant to such conversion or exchange taking the relevant date as decided and disclosed by it while passing the special resolution.
(3)  The issuer shall not allot partly paid up eligible securities: Provided  that  in  case  of allotment  of  non  convertible  debt  instruments  along  with  warrants,  the allottees may pay the full consideration or part thereof payable with respect to warrants, at the time of allotment of such warrants: Provided  further  that  on  allotment  of  equity  shares  on  exercise  of  options  attached  to  warrants, such equity shares shall be fully paid up.
(4)  The  prices  determined  for  qualified  institutions  placement  shall  be  subject  to  appropriate adjustments if the issuer: (a)  makes an issue of equity shares by way of capitalization of profits or reserves, other than by way of a dividend on shares; (b)  makes a rights issue of equity shares; (c)  consolidates its outstanding equity shares into a smaller number of shares; (d)  divides its outstanding equity shares including by way of stock split; (e) re-classifies any of its equity shares into other securities of the issuer; (f) is  involved  in  such  other  similar  events  or  circumstances,  which  in  the  opinion  of  the concerned stock exchange, requires adjustments. recognised stock exchanges in which the equity shares of the same class of the issuer are listed and in which  the  highest  trading  volume  in  such  equity  shares  has  been  recorded  during  the  two  weeks immediately preceding the relevant date. Restrictions on allotment.
86.  (1)  Allotment  under  the  qualified institutions  placement shall  be  made  subject to  the  following conditions: (a)  Minimum of ten per cent. of eligible securities shall be allotted to mutual funds: Provided that if the mutual funds do not subscribe to  said minimum percentage or any part  thereof,  such  minimum  portion  or  part  thereof  may  be  allotted  to  other  qualified institutional buyers; (b)  No  allotment  shall  be  made,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  to  any  qualified  institutional buyer who is a promoter or any person related to promoters of the issuer: Provided that a qualified institutional buyer who does not hold any shares in the issuer and who has acquired the said rights in the capacity of a lender shall not be deemed to be a person related to promoters.
(2) In a qualified institutions placement of non-convertible debt instrument along with warrants, an investor can subscribe to the combined offering of non- convertible debt instruments with warrants or to the individual securities, that is, either non- convertible debt instruments or warrants.
(3)  The applicants in qualified institutions placement shall not withdraw their bids after the closure of the issue. has any of the following rights shall be deemed to be a person related to the promoters of the issuer: (a) rights  under  a  shareholders’  agreement  or  voting  agreement  entered  into  with  promoters  or persons related to the promoters; right to appoint any nominee director on the board of the issuer. (b)  veto rights; or (c) Minimum number of allottees.
87.  (1)  The  minimum  number  of  allottees  for  each  placement  of  eligible  securities  made  under qualified institutions placement shall not be less than: (a) (b) two, where the issue size is less than or equal to  two hundred and fifty crore rupees; five, where the issue size is greater than two hundred and fifty crore rupees: Provided that no single allottee shall be allotted more than fifty per cent. of the issue size.
(2)  The  qualified  institutional  buyers  belonging  to  the  same  group  or  who  are  under  same  control shall be deemed to be a single allottee. belonging to the same group” shall have the same meaning as derived from sub-section (11) of section 372 of the Companies Act, 1956; Validity of the special resolution.
88. (1) Allotment pursuant to the special resolution referred to in clause (a) of regulation 82 shall be completed within a period of twelve months from the date of passing of the resolution.
(2)  The issuer shall not make subsequent qualified institutions placement until expiry of six months from  the  date  of  the  prior  qualified  institutions  placement  made  pursuant  to  one  or  more  special resolutions. Restrictions on amount raised.
89.  The  aggregate  of  the  proposed  qualified  institutions  placement  and  all  previous  qualified institutions placements made by the issuer in the same financial year shall not exceed five times the net worth of the issuer as per the audited balance sheet of the previous financial year. Tenure.
90.  The  tenure  of  the  convertible  or  exchangeable  eligible  securities  issued  through  qualified institutions placement shall not exceed sixty months from the date of allotment. Transferability of eligible securities.
91.  The  eligible  securities  allotted  under  qualified  institutions  placement  shall  not  be  sold  by  the allottee for a period of one year from the date of allotment, except on a recognised stock exchange. 171[CHAPTER VIII-A INSTITUTIONAL PLACEMENT PROGRAMME Applicability.
91A. (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to issuance of fresh shares and or offer for sale of shares in a listed issuer for the purpose of achieving minimum public shareholding in terms of Rule 19(2)(b) and 19A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957.
30.01.2012. (2)  Unless  otherwise  specified,  no  provisions  of  these  regulations  shall  be  applicable  to  the institutional placement programme except for the following:- (a)  regulations 2, 5, 12, 18, 19, 47, 48, 51, 59, 60, 61, 64, 65, 66 and 68; (b)  clauses (a) and (b) of sub-regulation (2)  of regulation 4; (c)  clause (b) of regulation 7. Definitions.
91B. For the purpose of this Chapter: (a)  “eligible  securities”  shall  mean  equity  shares  of  same  class  listed  and  traded  in  the  stock exchange(s); (b) “eligible seller” include listed issuer, promoter/promoter group of listed issuer; (c)  “institutional  placement  programme”  means  a  further  public  offer  of  eligible  securities  by  an eligible seller, in which the offer, allocation and allotment of such securities is made only to qualified institutional buyers in terms of this Chapter. Conditions for institutional placement programme.
91C. (1) An institutional placement programme may be made only after a special resolution approving the institutional placement programme has been passed by the shareholders of the issuer in terms of section 81(1A) of the Companies Act, 1956.
(2) No partly paid-up securities shall be offered.
(3) The issuer shall obtain an in-principle approval from the stock exchange(s). Appointment of merchant banker.
91D. An institutional placement programme shall be managed by merchant banker(s) registered with the Board who shall exercise due diligence. Offer Document.
91E.  (1)  The  institutional  placement  programme  shall  be  made  on  the  basis  of  the  offer  document which shall contain all material information, including those specified in Schedule XVIII.
(2)  The  issuer  shall,  simultaneously  while  registering  the  offer  document  with  the  Registrar  of Companies,  file  a  copy  thereof  with  the  Board  and  with  the  stock  exchange(s)  through  the  lead merchant banker.
(3) The issuer shall file the soft copy of the offer document with the Board as specified in Schedule V, along with the fee as specified in Schedule IV.
(4) The offer document shall also be placed on the website of the concerned stock exchange and of the issuer clearly stating that it is in connection with institutional placement programme and that the offer is being made only to the qualified institutional buyers.
(5)  The  merchant  banker  shall  submit  to  the  Board  a  due  diligence  certificate  as  per  Form  A  of Schedule  VI,  stating  that  the  eligible  securities  are  being  issued  under  institutional  placement programme and that the issuer complies with requirements of this Chapter. Pricing and allocation/allotment.
91F.  (1)  The  eligible  seller  shall  announce  a  floor  price  or  price  band  at  least  one  day  prior  to  the opening of institutional placement programme.
(2) The eligible seller shall have the option to make allocation/allotment as per any of the following methods –
(3) The method chosen shall be disclosed in the offer document.
(4) Allocation/allotment shall be overseen by stock exchange before final allotment. (a) proportionate basis; (b) price priority basis; or (c) criteria as mentioned in the offer document. Restrictions.
91G. 172[ (1) The promoter or promoter group shall not make institutional placement programme if the promoter or any person who is part of the promoter group has purchased or sold the eligible securities during the twelve weeks period prior to the date of the programme and they shall not purchase or sell the eligible securities during the twelve weeks period after the date of the programme: Provided that such promoter or promoter group  may , within the period provided in sub-regulation
(1), offer eligible securities held by them through institutional placement programme or offer for sale through stock exchange mechanism specified by the Board,  subject to the condition that  there shall be a gap of minimum two weeks between the two successive offer(s) and /or programme(s).]
(2)  Allocation/allotment  under  the  institutional  placement  programme  shall  be  made  subject  to  the following conditions: (a)  Minimum  of  twenty  five  per  cent.  of  eligible  securities  shall  be  allotted  to  mutual  funds  and insurance companies: Provided  that  if  the  mutual  funds  and  insurance  companies  do  not  subscribe  to  said  minimum percentage or any part thereof, such minimum portion or part thereof may be allotted to other qualified institutional buyers; (b)  No  allocation/allotment  shall  be  made,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  to  any  qualified  institutional buyer who is a promoter or any person related to promoters of the issuer: Provided that a qualified institutional buyer who does not hold any shares in the issuer and who has acquired the rights in the capacity of a lender shall not be deemed to be a person related to promoters.
(3) The issuer shall accept bids using ASBA facility only.
(4)  The  bids  made  by  the  applicants  in  institutional  placement  programme  shall  not  be  revised downwards or withdrawn. has any of the following rights shall be deemed to be a person related to the promoters of the issuer:- (a) rights under a shareholders’ agreement or voting agreement entered into with promoters or persons related to the promoters; (b) veto rights; or (c) right to appoint any nominee director on the board of the issuer. Minimum number of allottees.
91H.  (1)  The  minimum  number  of  allottees  for  each  offer  of  eligible  securities  made  under institutional placement programme shall not be less than ten: Provided that no single allottee shall be allotted more than twenty five per cent. of the offer size.
(2) The qualified institutional buyers belonging to the same group or who are under same control shall be deemed to be a single allottee. belonging to the same group” shall have the same meaning as derived from sub-section (11) of section 372 of the Companies Act, 1956; Restrictions on size of the offer.
91-I. (1) The aggregate of all the tranches of institutional placement programme made by the eligible seller shall not result in increase in public shareholding by more than ten per cent. or such lesser per cent. as is required to reach minimum public shareholding.
(2) Where the issue has been oversubscribed, an allotment of not more than ten per cent. of the offer size shall be made by the eligible seller. Period of Subscription and display of demand.
91J. (1) The issue shall be kept open for a minimum of one day or maximum of two days.
(2)  The  aggregate  demand  schedule  shall  be  displayed  by  stock  exchange(s)  without  disclosing  the price. Withdrawal of offer.
91K. The eligible seller shall have the right to withdraw the offer in case it is not fully subscribed. Transferability of eligible securities.
91L. The eligible securities allotted under institutional placement programme shall not be sold by the allottee  for  a  period  of one  year  from  the date  of allocation/allotment,  except  on  a  recognised  stock exchange.] CHAPTER IX BONUS ISSUE Conditions for bonus issue.
92. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 or any other applicable law for the time being in force, a listed issuer may issue bonus shares to its members if: (a) (b) (c) it  is  authorised  by  its  articles  of  association  for  issue  of  bonus  shares,  capitalisation  of reserves, etc.: Provided that if there is no such provision in the articles of association, the issuer shall pass a resolution  at  its  general  body  meeting  making  provisions  in  the  articles  of  associations  for capitalisation of reserve; it  has  not  defaulted  in  payment  of  interest  or  principal  in  respect  of  fixed  deposits  or  debt securities  issued by it; it  has  sufficient  reason  to  believe  that  it  has  not  defaulted  in  respect  of  the  payment  of statutory dues of the employees such as contribution to provident fund, gratuity and bonus; the partly paid shares, if any outstanding on the date of allotment, are made fully paid up (d) Restriction on bonus issue.
93. (1) No issuer shall make a bonus issue of equity shares 173[***] unless it has made reservation of equity  shares  of  the  same  class  in  favour  of  the  holders  of  174[***]  outstanding  175[compulsorily] convertible debt instruments 176[,if any,] in proportion to the convertible part thereof.
(2) The equity shares 177[so] reserved for the holders of fully or partly 178[compulsorily] convertible debt instruments shall be issued at the time of conversion of such convertible debt instruments on the same terms or same proportion 179[at] which the bonus shares were issued. 173 The words and symbol “if it has outstanding fully or partly convertible debt instruments at the time of making the Bonus shares only against reserves, etc. if capitalised in cash.
94.  (1)  The  bonus  issue  shall  be  made  out  of  free  reserves  built  out  of  the  genuine  profits  or securities premium collected in cash only and reserves created by revaluation of fixed assets shall not be capitalised for the purpose of issuing bonus shares.
(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-regulation (1), the bonus share shall not be issued in lieu of dividend. Completion of bonus issue.
95.  (1)  An  issuer,  announcing  a  bonus  issue  after  the  approval  of  its  board  of  directors  and  not requiring shareholders’ approval for capitalisation of profits or reserves for making the bonus issue, shall  implement  the  bonus  issue  within  fifteen  days  from  the  date  of  approval  of  the  issue  by  its board of directors: Provided  that  where  the  issuer  is  required  to  seek  shareholders’  approval  for  capitalisation  of profits  or  reserves  for  making  the  bonus  issue,  the  bonus  issue  shall  be  implemented  within  two months from the date of the meeting of its board of directors wherein the decision to announce the bonus issue was taken subject to shareholders’ approval.
(2) Once the decision to make a bonus issue is announced, the issue can not be withdrawn. ISSUE OF INDIAN DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS CHAPTER X Applicability.
96.  (1)  The  provisions  of  this  Chapter  shall  apply  to  an  issue  of  Indian  Depository  Receipts (hereinafter referred to as “IDR”) made in terms of section 605A of the Companies Act, 1956 and Companies (Issue of Indian Depository Receipts) Rules, 2004.
(2) All provisions of these regulations shall be applicable in case of issue of IDR, except the disclosure requirements with respect to public issue and rights issue of specified securities as provided in these regulations and the following: (a)  clauses (a), (b), (c) and (f) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 4; (b)  sub-regulations (1), (2) and (3) of regulation 6, (c)  clauses (c),(d) and (e)  of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 8; (d)  sub-regulations (2) and (3) of regulation 8; regulations 10,16,17,19, 20,21,22,23,24,26,27,31,41, 42,180[***] 45,47, 49 and 68; (e) (f) sub-regulation (2) of regulation 11; (g) sub-regulation (2) of regulation 28; (h)  clauses (b) and (c) of regulation 29; (i)  Parts III and IV of Chapter III; 181[(ia) regulation 43, except sub-regulation (3) thereof;] (j)  Chapter IV; (k)  sub-regulation (3) of regulation 65; (l)  Chapters VII, VIII and IX.
(3) Further, the applicability of regulation 60 shall be as follows: (a) (b) (c) (d) issue advertisements made in India or any research report circulated in India, pertaining to the IDR issue of the issuing company; the  applicability  of  sub-regulations  (2)  and  (3)  shall  be  restricted  to  any  public communications and publicity material issued or published in any media in India; the  applicability  of  sub-regulations  (5)  and  (6)  shall  be  restricted  to  any  material  or information released in India and any issue advertisements and publicity materials issued or published in any media in India; the applicability of sub-regulation (13) shall be restricted to any product advertisement of an issuing company issued or published in any media in India; (e)  all other provisions of regulation 60 shall be applicable. Eligibility.
97.  An issuing company making an issue of IDR shall also satisfy the following: (a) (b) (c) the issuing company is listed in its home country; the issuing company is not prohibited to issue securities by any regulatory body; the issuing company has track record of compliance with  securities market  regulations  in  its home country. the issuing company is incorporated and listed. Conditions for issue of IDR.
98. An issue of IDR shall be subject to the following conditions: (a) (b)  procedure  to  be  followed  by  each  class  of  applicant  for  applying  shall  be  mentioned  in  the issue size shall not be less than fifty crore rupees; prospectus; (c)  minimum application amount shall be twenty thousand rupees; (d)  at  least  fifty  per  cent.  of  the  IDR  issued  shall  be  allotted  to  qualified  institutional  buyers  on (e) proportionate basis as per illustration given in Part C of Schedule XI; the balance fifty per cent. may be allocated among the categories of non-institutional investors and  retail  individual  investors  including  employees  at  the  discretion  of  the  issuer  and  the manner  of  allocation  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  prospectus.  Allotment  to  investors  within  a category shall be on proportionate basis: 182[ Provided that at least thirty per cent. of the IDRs being offered in the public issue shall be available for allocation to retail individual investors and  in case of under subscription in retail individual investor category, spillover to other categories to the extent of under subscription may be permitted. (a)  is a resident of India, and (b) is a permanent and full-time employee or a director, whether whole time or part time, of the issuer or of the holding company or subsidiary company or of  the  material  associate(s)  of  the  issuer,  whose  financial  statements  are consolidated  with  the  issuer’s  financial  statements,  working  in  India  and does not  include promoters and  an immediate  relative of the promoter  (i.e., any spouse of that person, or any parent, brother, sister or child of the person or of the spouse).] (f)  At any given time, there shall be only one denomination of IDR of the issuing company. (g)  183[the issuing company shall ensure that the underlying equity shares against which IDRs are issued  have  been  or  will  be  listed  in  its  home  country  before  listing  of  IDRs  in  stock exchange(s). the  issuing  company  shall  ensure  that  the  underlying  shares  of  IDRs  shall  rank  pari-passu with the existing shares of the same class.] (h) Minimum subscription.
99. (1) For non-underwritten issues: (a) If the issuing company does not receive the minimum subscription of ninety per cent. of  the  offer  through  offer  document  on  the  date  of  closure  of  the  issue,  or  if  the subscription level falls below ninety per cent. after the  closure of issue on account of cheques  having  being  returned  unpaid  or  withdrawal  of  applications,  the  issuing company shall forthwith refund the entire subscription amount received. (b)  If  the  issuing  company  fails  to  refund  the  entire  subscription  amount  within  fifteen days  from  the  date  of  the  closure  of  the  issue,  it  is  liable  to  pay  the  amount  with interest  to  the  subscribers  at  the  rate  of  fifteen  per  cent.  per  annum  for  the  period  of delay.
(2)  For underwritten issues: If the issuing company does not receive the minimum subscription of ninety per cent. of the offer through offer document including devolvement of underwriters within sixty  days  from  the  date  of  closure  of  the  issue,  the  issuing  company  shall  forthwith  refund  the entire subscription amount  received with  interest to  the subscribers  at  the rate of  fifteen per cent. per annum for the period of delay beyond sixty days.
184[Fungibility.
100. The Indian Depository Receipts shall be fungible into underlying equity shares of the issuing company in the manner specified by the Board and Reserve Bank of India, from time to time.] Filing of draft prospectus, due diligence certificates, payment of fees and issue advertisement for IDR.
101. 185[(1) The issuing company shall appoint one or more merchant bankers, at least one of whom shall be a lead merchant banker and shall also appoint other intermediaries, in consultation with the lead merchant banker  and shall enter into  an  agreement with the merchant  banker on the lines of format of agreement as specified in Schedule II.]
(2) Where  the  issue  is  managed  by  more  than  one  merchant  banker,  the  rights,  obligations  and responsibilities, relating inter-alia to disclosures, allotment, refund and underwriting obligations, if any, of each merchant banker shall be predetermined and disclosed in the prospectus on the lines of format as specified in Schedule I.
(3) The  issuing  company  shall  file  a  draft  prospectus  with  the  Board  through  a  merchant  banker along  with  the  requisite  fee,  as  prescribed  in  Companies  (Issue  of  Indian  Depository  Receipts) Rules, 2004.
(4) The prospectus filed with the Board under this regulation shall also be furnished to the Board in a soft copy on the lines specified in Schedule V.
(5) The lead merchant bankers shall: (a)  submit a due diligence certificate as per format  given in Part C of Schedule XIX to the Board along with the draft prospectus. (b)  certify  that  all  amendments,  suggestions  or  observations  made  by  the  Board  have  been incorporated in the prospectus (c)  submit a fresh due diligence certificate as per format given in Part C of Schedule XIX, at the time of filing the prospectus with the Registrar of the Companies. (d)  furnish a certificate as per format given in Part C of Schedule XIX, immediately before (e) the opening of the issue, certifying that no corrective action is required on its part. furnish  a  certificate  as  per  format  given  in  Part  C  of  Schedule  XIX,  after  the  issue  has opened but before it closes for subscription.
(6) The issuing company shall make arrangements for mandatory collection centres as specified in Schedule III.
(7) The issuing company shall issue an advertisement in one English national daily newspaper with wide circulation and one Hindi national daily newspaper with wide circulation, soon after receiving final observations, if any, on the publicly filed draft prospectus with the Board, which shall be on the lines of the format and contain the minimum disclosures as given in Part A of Schedule XIII. 186[Agreements with other intermediaries and others.
101A. (1) The issuing company shall appoint a registrar and transfer agent which has connectivity with all the depositories. (2)The issuing company shall enter into an agreement with overseas custodian bank and domestic depository.
(3)  The lead merchant banker, after independently assessing the capability of other intermediaries and others to carry out their obligations, shall advise the issuing company on their appointment.] 187[Display of bid data and issue of allotment letter.
102. (1) The stock exchange(s) offering online bidding system for the book building   process shall display on their website, the data pertaining to book built IDR issue, in the format specified in Part B(2)  of  Schedule  XI,  from  the  date  of  opening  of  the  bids  till  at  least  three  days  after  closure  of bids.
(2)  The  issuing  company  shall  ensure  that  letter  of  allotment  for  the  IDRs  are  issued simultaneously to all allottees and that in the event of it being impossible to issue letters of regret at the same time, a notice to that effect be issued in the media so that it appears on the morning after the letters of allotment have been dispatched.] Disclosures in prospectus and abridged prospectus.
103. (1) The prospectus shall contain all material disclosures which are true, correct and adequate so as to enable the applicants to take an informed investment decision.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the prospectus shall contain: (a) the disclosures specified in Schedule to Companies (Issue of Indian Depository Receipts) Rules, 2004; and (b) the disclosures in the manner as specified in Part A of Schedule XIX.
(3) The abridged prospectus for issue of Indian Depository Receipts shall contain the disclosures as specified in Part B of Schedule XIX. Post-issue reports.
104. (1) The merchant banker shall submit post-issue reports to the Board in accordance with sub- regulation (2).
(2) The post-issue reports shall be submitted as follows: (a) initial post issue report on the lines of Parts A and B of Schedule XVI, within three days of closure of the issue; (b)  final post issue report on the lines of Parts C and D of Schedule XVI, within fifteen days of the date of finalisation of basis of allotment or within fifteen days of refund of money in case of failure of issue. Undersubscribed issue.
105.  In  case  of  undersubscribed  issue  of  IDR,  the  merchant  banker  shall  furnish  information  in respect of underwriters who have failed to meet their underwriting devolvement to the Board on the lines of the format specified in Schedule XVII. Finalisation of basis of allotment.
106.  The  executive  director  or  managing  director  of  the  stock  exchange,  where  the  IDR  are proposed  to  be  listed,  along  with  the  post  issue  lead  merchant  bankers  and  registrars  to  the  issue shall ensure that the basis of allotment is finalised in a fair and proper manner in accordance with the allotment procedure as specified in Schedule XV. RIGHTS ISSUE OF INDIAN DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS 188[CHAPTER XA Applicability.
106A. (1) In addition to compliance with Chapter X, a listed issuer offering IDR through a rights issue shall satisfy the conditions specified in this Chapter at the time of filing the offer document: Provided that the provisions  of the following regulations shall not be applicable in  case of rights issue of IDRs:
(2)  Every  listed  issuer  offering  IDRs  through  a  rights  issue  shall  prepare  the  offer  document  in accordance with the home country requirements along with an addendum containing disclosures as specified in Part A of Schedule XXI and regulation 106F and file the same with the Board and the stock exchanges on which the IDRs of the issuer are listed. (a) clauses (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of regulation 98; (b) regulation 102; and (c) regulation 103. Eligibility.
106B. No issuer shall make a rights issue of IDRs: (a) if at the time of undertaking the rights issue, the issuer is in breach of ongoing material obligations  under  the  IDR  Listing  Agreement  as  may  be  applicable  to  such  issuer  or material  obligations  under  the  deposit  agreement  entered  into  between  the  domestic depository and the issuer at the time of initial offering of IDRs; and
23.09.2011. (b) unless it has made an application to all the recognised stock exchanges in India, where its IDRs are already listed, for listing of the IDRs to be issued by way of rights and has chosen one of them as the designated stock exchange. the  rights to the  IDR  Holders/renouncees  or  arrange  for Renunciation by an IDR holder.
106C. Unless the laws of the home jurisdiction of the issuer company otherwise provide, the rights offering  shall  be  deemed  to  include  a  right  exercisable  by  the  person  concerned  to  renounce  the IDRs  offered  to  the  IDR  holder  in  favour  of  any  other  person  subject  to  applicable  laws  and  the same shall be disclosed in the offer document. Depository.
106D. The domestic depository shall, in accordance with the depository  agreement executed with the issuer at the time of initial offering of IDRs, take such steps as are necessary to enable the IDR holders  to  have  entitlements  under  the  rights  offering  and  issue  additional  IDRs  to  such  IDR holders,  distribute the  IDR holders/renouncees to subscribe for any additional rights which are available due to lack of take-up by other holders of underlying shares. Record Date.
106E.  (1) A listed issuer making a rights issue of IDRs shall in accordance with provisions of the listing agreement, announce a record date for the purpose of determining the shareholders eligible to apply for IDRs in the proposed rights issue.
(2) If the issuer withdraws the rights issue after announcing the record date, it shall notify the Board about  the  same  and  shall  notify  the  same  in  one  English  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide circulation,  one  Hindi  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  and  one  regional  language daily newspaper with wide circulation at the place where principal office of the issuer is situated in India. If the issuer withdraws the rights issue after announcing the record date, it shall not make an application for offering of IDRs on a rights basis for a period of twelve months from the said record date. Disclosures in the offer document and the addendum for the rights offering.
106F. (1) The offer document for the rights offering shall contain disclosures as required under the home country regulations of the issuer.
(2) Apart from the disclosures as required under the home country regulations, an additional wrap (addendum  to  offer  document)  shall  be  attached  to  the  offer  document  to  be  circulated  in  India containing  information  as  specified  in  Part  A  of  Schedule  XXI  and  other  instructions  as  to  the procedures and process to be followed with respect to rights issue of IDRs in India.
(3) Without  prejudice to the generality of sub-regulations  (1) and (2), the offer document  and the addendum  attached  with  it,  shall  contain  all  material  information,  which  are  true,  correct  and adequate, so as to enable the applicants to take an informed investment decision. Filing of draft offer document and the addendum for rights offering.
106G.  (1)The  issuer  shall  appoint  one  or  more  merchant  bankers,  one  of  whom  shall  be  a  lead merchant banker and shall also appoint other intermediaries, in consultation with the lead merchant banker, to carry out the obligations relating to the issue.
(2)  The  issuer  shall,  through  the  lead  merchant  banker,  file  the  draft  offer  document  prepared  in accordance with the home country requirements along with an addendum containing disclosures as specified in Part A of Schedule XXI with the Board, as a confidential filing accompanied with fees as specified in Part A of Schedule IV.
(3) The Board may specify changes or issue observations, if any, on the draft offer document and the addendum within thirty days or from the following dates, whichever is later: (a)  the  date  of  receipt  of  the  draft  offer  document  prepared  in  accordance  with  the  home country requirements along with an addendum under sub-regulation (2); or (b) the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the lead merchant bankers, where the Board has sought any clarification or additional information from them; or (c)  the  date  of  receipt  of  clarification  or  information  from  any  regulator  or  agency,  where the Board has sought any clarification or information from such regulator or agency; or (d)    the  date  of  receipt  of  a  copy  of  in-principle  approval  letter  issued  by  the  recognised stock exchanges.
(4)  If  the  Board  specifies  changes  or  issues  observations  on  the  draft  offer  document  and  the addendum under sub-regulation(3), the issuer and the merchant banker shall  file the revised draft offer document and the  updated addendum  after  incorporating the changes suggested or specified by the Board.
(5)  The  issuer  shall  also  submit  an  undertaking  from  the  Overseas  Custodian  and  Domestic Depository addressed to the issuer, to comply with their obligations with respect to the said rights issue under their respective agreements entered into between them, along with the offer document.
(6) The issuer shall ensure that the Compliance Officer, in charge of ensuring compliance with the obligations under this Chapter, functions from within the territorial limits of India. Fast track issue.
106H. (1) Nothing contained in sub-regulations (1), (2), (3) and (4) of regulation 106G shall apply, if the issuer satisfies the following conditions: (a)  the  issuer  is  in  compliance  in  all  material  respects  with  the  provisions  of  deposit agreement and the provisions of listing agreements (or listing conditions) applicable in all  the  jurisdictions  wherever  the  issuer  is  listed,  for  a  period  of  at  least  three  years immediately preceding the date of filing of the offer document, and a certification to this effect is provided by the issuer; (b) the  offer  document  for  the  rights  offering  of  the  securities  of  the  issuer  has  been  filed and reviewed by the securities regulator in the home country of the issuer; (c)  there are no pending show-cause notices or prosecution proceedings against the issuer or its  promoters,  where  applicable,  or  whole  time  directors  on  the  reference  date  by  the Board or the regulatory authorities in its home country restricting them from accessing the capital markets; and (d) the issuer has redressed at least ninety five per cent. of the complaints received from the IDR holders before the end of the three months period immediately preceding the month of date of filing the letter of offer with the designated stock exchange.
(2) Where the conditions  in  sub-regulation  (1) are satisfied, the issuer may opt  for rights  issue of IDRs  by  filing  a  copy  of  the  offer  document  prepared  in  accordance  with  the  home  country requirements  along  with  an  addendum  containing  disclosures  as  specified  in  Part  A  of  Schedule XXI  with  the  Board  for  record  purposes,  before  filing  the  same  with  the  recognised  stock exchanges. Dispatch of abridged letter of offer and application form.
106I.  (1)  The  abridged  letter  of  offer,  containing  disclosures  as  specified  in  Part  B  of  Schedule XXI, for a rights offering, along with application form, shall be dispatched through registered post or  speed  post  to  all  the  eligible  IDR  holders  at  least  three  days  before  the  date  of  opening  of  the issue and shall be made available on the website of the issuer with appropriate access restrictions at the same time it is made available to the holders of its equity shares. Provided that a hard copy of the offer document for a rights offering along with the addendum shall be made available at the principal office of the issuer or lead merchant banker to any existing IDR holder who has made a request in this regard.
(2) The eligible IDR holders who have not received the application form may apply in writing on a plain paper to the domestic depository, along with the requisite application money within the time frame for acceptance.
(3) The eligible IDR holders making an application otherwise than on the application form shall not renounce  their  rights  and  shall  not  utilise  the  application  form  for  any  purpose  including renunciation even if it is received subsequently.
(4) Where any eligible IDR holder makes an application on an application form as well as on plain paper, such application is liable to be rejected.
(5)  The  issue  price  and  the  ratio  shall  be  decided  simultaneously  with  record  date  in  accordance with the home country regulations. 189[Period of subscription and issue of allotment letter.
106J.  (1) A rights issue shall be open for subscription in India for a period as applicable under the laws of its home country but in no case less than  ten days.
(2)  The issuing company shall ensure that it sends the allotment letter of rights to IDR Holders at the  time  they  are  sent  to  shareholders  of  the  issuing  company  as  per  the  requirement  of  its  home country or other jurisdictions where its securities are listed.] Pre-Issue Advertisement for rights issue.
106K. (1) The issuer shall issue an advertisement for the rights issue disclosing the following: (a)  the  date  of  completion  of  despatch  of  the  abridged  letter  of  offer  and  the  application form; (b) the  centres  other  than  principal  office  of  the  issuer  in  India  where  the  eligible  IDR holders may obtain duplicate copies of the application forms in case they do not receive the application form within a reasonable time after opening of the rights issue; (c)  a statement that if the eligible IDR holders have neither received the original application forms  nor  they  are  in  a  position  to  obtain    the  duplicate  forms,  they  may  make application in writing on a plain paper to subscribe to the rights issue; (d) a  format  to  enable  the  eligible  IDR  holders,  to  make  the  application  on  a  plain  paper specifying  therein  necessary  particulars  such  as  name,  address,  ratio  of  rights  issue, issue price, number of IDRs held, ledger folio numbers, depository participant ID, client ID, number of IDRs entitled and applied for, amount to be paid along with application, and particulars of cheque, etc. to be drawn in favour of the issuer’s account; (e)  a statement that the applications can be directly sent by the eligible IDR holders through registered post together with the application moneys to the issuer's designated official at the address given in the advertisement; (f)  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  if  the  eligible  IDR  holder  makes  an  application  on  plain paper and also on application form both his applications shall be liable to be rejected at the option of the issuer.
(2)  The  advertisement  shall  be  made  in  at  least  one  English  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide circulation,  one  Hindi  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  and  one  regional  language daily newspaper with wide circulation at the place where principal office of the issuer is situated in India at least three days before the date of opening of the issue. Prior to its substitution, said Regulation read as under : "106J. Period of subscription.— A rights issue shall be open for subscription in India for a period as applicable under the laws of its home country but in no case less than 10 days." Utilisation of funds raised in rights issue.
106L. (1) The issuer shall utilise funds raised in relation to the IDRs pursuant to the rights offering only upon completion of the allotment process.] 191[ISSUE OF SPECIFIED SECURITIES BY SMALL AND MEDIUM 190[ CHAPTER XB] ENTERPRISES] Applicability.
192[106M.] (1) An issuer whose post-issue face value capital does not exceed ten crore rupees shall issue its specified securities in accordance with provisions of this Chapter.
(2)  An  issuer,  whose  post  issue  face  value  capital  is  more  than  ten  crore  rupees  and  upto  twenty five crore rupees, may also issue specified securities in accordance with provisions of this Chapter.
(3) The provisions of these regulations, in respect of the matters not specifically dealt or excluded under  this  Chapter,  shall  mutatis  mutandis  apply  to  any  issue  of  specified  securities  under  this Chapter: Provided that provisions of sub-regulations (1), (2) and (3) of regulation 6,  193[****], regulation 8, regulation  9,  regulation  10,  regulation  25,  regulation  26,  regulation  27  and  sub-regulation  (1)  of regulation 49 of these regulations shall not apply to an issue of specified securities made under this Chapter. Definitions.
194[106N.] (1) In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, - (a)  “Main  Board”  means  a  recognized  stock  exchange  having  nationwide  trading terminals, other than SME exchange; (b)  “nominated  investor”  means  a  qualified  institutional  buyer  or  private  equity  fund, who    enters    into  an  agreement    with  the  merchant  banker  to  subscribe  to  the  issue  in case of under-subscription or to receive or deliver the specified securities in the  market- making process; authority or a fund established by any person registered with any regulatory authority; (c)  “SME exchange” means a trading platform of a  recognised stock  exchange having nationwide  trading  terminals  permitted    by  the  Board  to  list  the  specified  securities issued  in  accordance  with  this  Chapter  and  includes  a  stock    exchange  granted recognition for this purpose but does not include the  Main Board;
(2)  All  other  words  and  expression  used  in  this  Chapter  but  not  defined  under  sub- regulation (1) shall derive their meaning from regulation 2 of these regulations. Filing of offer document and due diligence certificate.
195[106O.]  (1)  The  issuer  making  a  public  issue  or  rights  issue  of  specified  securities  under  this Chapter shall not file the draft offer document with the Board: Provided that the issuer shall file a copy of the  offer document with the Board  through a merchant banker, simultaneously with the filing of the prospectus with the SME exchange and the Registrar of Companies or letter of offer with the SME Exchange: Provided further that the Board shall not issue any observation on the offer document.
(2)    The  merchant  banker  shall  submit  a  due-diligence  certificate  as  per  Form  A  of  Schedule  VI including  additional  confirmations  as  provided  in  Form  H  of  Schedule  VI  alongwith  the  offer document to the Board.
(3) The offer document shall be displayed from the date of filing in terms of sub-regulation (1) on the  websites  of  the  Board,  the  issuer,  the  merchant  banker  and  the  SME  exchange  where  the specified securities offered through the offer document are proposed to be listed. Underwriting by merchant bankers and underwriters.
196[106P.] (1) The issue made under this Chapter shall be hundred per cent. underwritten. offer through offer document and shall not be restricted upto the minimum subscription level.
(2)  The  merchant  banker/s  shall  underwrite  at  least  fifteen  per  cent  of  the  issue  size  on  his/  their own account/s.
(3) The issuer in consultation with merchant banker may appoint underwriters in accordance with Securities and Exchange Board of India (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993 and the merchant banker may  enter  into  an  agreement  with  nominated  investor  indicating  therein  the  number  of  specified securities which they agree to subscribe at issue price in case of under-subscription.
(4)  If  other  underwriters  fail  to  fulfill  their  underwriting  obligations  or  other  nominated  investors fail  to  subscribe  to  unsubscribed  portion,  the  merchant  banker  shall  fulfill  the  underwriting obligations.
(5)  The  underwriters  other  than  the  merchant  banker  and  the  nominated  investors,  who  have entered  into  an  agreement  for  subscribing  to  the  issue  in  case  of  under-subscription,  shall  not subscribe to the issue made under this Chapter in any manner except for fulfilling their obligations under their respective agreements with the merchant banker in this regard.
(6)  All  the  underwriting  and  subscription  arrangements  made  by  the  merchant  banker  shall  be disclosed in the offer document.
(7) The merchant banker shall file an undertaking to the Board that the issue has been hundred per cent. underwritten along with the list of underwriters and nominated investors indicating the extent of underwriting or subscription commitment made by them, one day before the opening of issue. Minimum Application Value.
197[106Q.] The issuer shall stipulate in the offer document, the minimum application size in terms of number of specified securities which shall not be less than one lakh rupees per application. Minimum Number of Allottees.
198[106R.] No allotment shall be made pursuant to any initial public offer made under this Chapter, if the number of prospective allottees is less than fifty. Listing of specified securities.
199[106S.]  (1)  Specified  securities  issued  in  accordance  with  this  Chapter  shall  be  listed  on  SME exchange.
(2) Where any listed issuer issues specified securities in accordance with provisions of this Chapter it  shall  migrate  the  specified  securities  already  listed  on  any  recognized  stock  exchange/s  to  the SME exchange. Migration to SME exchange.
200[106T.] A listed issuer whose post-issue face value capital is less than twenty five crore rupees may migrate its specified securities to SME exchange if its shareholders approve such migration by passing  a  special  resolution  through  postal  ballot  to  this  effect  and  if  such  issuer  fulfils  the eligibility criteria for listing laid down by the SME exchange: Provided that the special resolution shall be acted upon if and only if the votes cast by shareholders other than promoters in favour of the proposal amount to at least two times the number of votes cast by shareholders other than promoter shareholders against the proposal. Migration to Main Board.
201[106U.] (1) An issuer, whose specified securities are listed on a SME Exchange and whose post issue  face  value  capital  is  more  than  ten  crore  rupees  and  upto  twenty  five  crore  rupees,  may migrate its specified securities to Main Board if its shareholders approve such migration by passing a  special  resolution  through  postal  ballot  to  this  effect  and  if  such  issuer  fulfils  the  eligibility criteria for listing laid down by the Main Board: Provided that the special resolution shall be acted upon if and only if the votes cast by shareholders other than promoters in favour of the proposal amount to at least two times the number of votes cast by shareholders other than promoter shareholders against the proposal.
(2) Where the post issue face value capital of an issuer listed on SME exchange is likely to increase beyond  twenty  five  crore  rupees  by  virtue  of  any  further  issue  of  capital  by  the  issuer  by  way  of rights issue, preferential issue, bonus issue, etc. the issuer shall migrate its specified securities listed on SME exchange to Main Board and seek listing of specified securities proposed to be issued on the Main Board subject to the fulfilment of the eligibility criteria for listing of specified securities laid down by the Main Board: Provided that no further issue of capital by the issuer shall be made unless – (a)  the  shareholders  of  the  issuer  have  approved  the  migration  by  passing  a  special resolution  through  postal  ballot  wherein  the  votes  cast  by  shareholders  other  than promoters  in  favour  of  the  proposal  amount  to  at  least  two  times  the  number  of  votes cast by shareholders other than promoter shareholders against the proposal; (b) the  issuer  has  obtained    in-  principle  approval  from  the  Main  Board  for  listing  of  its entire specified securities on it. Market Making.
202[106V.]  (1)  The  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  compulsory  market  making  through  the  stock brokers  of  SME  exchange  in  the  manner  specified  by  the  Board  for  a  minimum  period  of  three years from the date of listing of specified securities issued under this Chapter on SME exchange or from the date of migration from Main Board in terms of regulation 203[106T], as the case may be.
(2)  The  merchant  banker  may  enter  into  agreement  with  nominated  investors  for  receiving  or delivering the specified securities in the market  making subject to the prior approval by the SME exchange where the specified securities are proposed to be listed.
(3) The issuer shall disclose the details of arrangement of market making in the offer document.
(4)  The  specified  securities  being  bought  or  sold  in  the  process  of  market  making  may  be transferred to or from the nominated investor with whom the merchant banker has entered into an agreement for the market making: Provided  that  the  inventory  of  the  market  maker,  as  on  the  date  of  allotment  of  the  specified securities, shall be  at  least  five per  cent.  of the specified securities proposed to  be listed on SME exchange.
(5)  The  market  maker  shall  buy  the  entire  shareholding  of  a  shareholder  of  the  issuer  in  one  lot, where value of such shareholding is less than the minimum contract size allowed for trading on the SME exchange: Provided that market  maker shall not  sell in  lots less than the minimum contract  size allowed for trading on the SME exchange.
(6)  Market  maker  shall  not  buy  the  shares  from  the  promoters  or  persons  belonging  to  promoter group of the issuer or any person who has acquired shares from such promoter or person belonging to  promoter  group,  during  the  compulsory  market  making  period  laid  down  under  sub-regulation
(1). (7) The promoters’ holding shall not be eligible for offering to the market maker under this Chapter during the period specified in sub-regulation (1): Provided that the promoters’ holding which is not locked-in as per these regulations can be traded with prior permission of the SME exchange, in the manner specified by the Board.
(8) Subject to the agreement between the issuer and the merchant banker/s, the merchant banker/s who have the responsibility of market making may be represented on the board of the issuer.] 204[CHAPTER XC LISTING ON INSTITUTIONAL TRADING PLATFORM Applicability.
106W.    (1)  The  provisions  of  this  chapter  shall  apply  to  entities    which  seek  listing  of  their specified  securities  exclusively  on  the  institutional  trading  platform  either  pursuant  to  a  public issue or otherwise.
(2) The provisions of these regulations, in respect of the matters not specifically dealt or excluded under  this  Chapter,  shall  apply  mutatis  mutandis  to  any  listing  of  specified  securities  under  this Chapter: Provided  that  the  provisions  of  sub-regulation  (4)  of  regulation  4,  sub-regulations  (1)  and  (2)  of regulation 26 of these regulations shall not apply to listing of specified securities made under this Chapter.
(3) The  institutional  trading  platform  shall  be  accessible  to  institutional  investors  and    non- institutional investors. Definitions.
106X. (1) In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,- (a) "institutional  trading  platform"  means  the  trading  platform  for  listing  and  trading  of specified  securities  of    entities  that  comply  with  the  eligibility  criteria  specified  in  regulation 106Y; (b) “institutional investor” means: (i)  qualified institutional buyer; or (ii) family trust or systematically important NBFCs registered with Reserve Bank of India or intermediaries registered with the Board, all with net-worth of more than five hundred crore rupees, as per the last audited financial statements; “persons acting in concert” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under regulation (c) 2(1)(q) of the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.
(3)  All other words and expressions used in this Chapter but not defined under sub-regulation (1) shall derive their meaning from regulation 2 of these regulations. Eligibility.
106Y. (1) The following entities shall be eligible for listing on the institutional trading platform,- (a)  an  entity  which  is  intensive  in  the  use  of  technology,  information  technology,  intellectual property,  data  analytics,  bio-technology  or  nano-technology  to  provide  products,  services  or business platforms with substantial value addition and at least twenty five per cent of its pre-issue capital  is  held  by  qualified  institutional  buyer(s)  as  on  the  date  of  filing  of  draft  information document or draft offer document with the Board, as the case may be; or (b)    any  other  entity  in  which  at  least  fifty  per  cent  of  the  pre-issue  capital  is  held  by  qualified institutional buyers as on the date of filing of draft information document or draft offer document with the Board, as the case may be.
(2) No person, individually or collectively  with  persons acting in  concert, shall hold  twenty five per cent or more of the post-issue share capital in an entity specified in sub-regulation (1). Listing without public issue.
106Z. (1) An entity seeking listing of its specified securities without making a public issue shall file a draft information  document along with  necessary  documents with  the Board in  accordance with these regulations along with fee as specified in Schedule IV of these regulations.
(2)  The  draft  information  document  shall  contain  the  disclosures  as  specified  for  draft  offer document in these regulations.
(3) Regulations  relating  to  the following shall not  be applicable in  case of listing without  public issue: (i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v) (vi) (vii) (viii) allotment; issue opening / closing; advertisement; underwriting; sub-regulation (5) of regulation 26; pricing; dispatch of issue material; and other such provisions related to offer of specified securities to public.
(4) The entity shall obtain in-principle approval from the recognised stock exchanges on which it proposes to get its specified securities listed.
(5)  The  entity  shall  list  its  specified  securities  on  the  recognised  stock  exchange(s  within  thirty days: (a)  from the date of issuance of observations by the Board; or (b) from the expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 6, if the Board has not issued any such observations.
(6)  The  entity  which  has  received  in-principle  approval  from  the  recognised  stock  exchange  for listing  of  its  specified  securities  on  the  institutional  trading  platform,  without  making  a  public issue, shall be deemed to  have been waived by the Board under sub-rule (7) of rule 19 from  the requirement  of  clause  (b)  of  sub-rule  (2)  of  rule  19  of  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules, 1957 for the limited purpose of listing on the institutional trading platform.
(7)  Provisions  relating  to  minimum  public  shareholding  shall  not  apply  to  entities  listed  on institutional trading platform without making a public issue.
(8)  The  draft  and  final  information  document  shall  be  approved  by  the  board  of  directors  of  the entity and shall be signed by all directors, the Chief Executive Officer, i.e., the Managing Director or Manager within the meaning of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Chief Financial Officer, i.e., the Whole-time Finance Director or any other person heading the finance function and discharging that function.
(9) The signatories shall also certify that all disclosures made in the information document are true and correct.
(10)    In  case  of  mis-statement  in  the  information  document  or  any  omission  therein,  any  person who  has  authorized  the  issue  of  information  document  shall  be  liable  in  accordance  with  the provisions of the SEBI Act, 1992 and regulations made thereunder. Listing pursuant to public issue.
106ZA.  (1)  An  entity  seeking  issue  and  listing  of  its  specified  securities  shall  file  a  draft  offer document  along  with  necessary  documents  with  the  Board  in  accordance  with  these  regulations along with fees as specified in Schedule IV of these regulations.
(2) The minimum application size shall be ten lakh rupees.
(3) The number of allottees shall be more than two hundred.
(4) The allocation in the net offer to public category shall be as follows: seventy-five per cent to institutional investors: (a) Provided that there shall be no separate allocation for Anchor Investors; (b) twenty-five per cent to non-institutional investors;
(5)  Any  under-subscription  in  the  non-institutional  investor  category  shall  be  available  for subscription under the institutional investors’ category.
(6) The allotment to institutional investors may be on a discretionary basis whereas the allotment to non-institutional investors shall be on a proportionate basis.
(7)  The  mode  of  allotment  to  institutional  investors,  i.e.,  whether  discretionary  or  proportionate, shall be disclosed prior to or at the time of filing of the Red Herring Prospectus.
(8)  In  case  of  discretionary  allotment  to  institutional  investors,  no  institutional  investor  shall  be allotted more than ten per cent of the issue size.
(9) The offer document  shall disclose the broad objects of the issue.
(10)  The  basis  of  issue  price  may  include  disclosures,  except  projections,  as  deemed  fit  by  the issuers  in  order  to  enable  investors  to  take  informed  decisions  and  the  disclosures  shall  suitably caution the investors about basis of valuation. Lock-in.
106ZB. (1) The entire pre-issue capital  of the shareholders shall be locked-in  for a period of six months from  the date of allotment  in  case of listing pursuant  to  public issue or date of listing in case of listing without public issue: Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to: (i) equity  shares  allotted  to  employees  under  an  employee  stock  option  or  employee  stock purchase scheme of the entity prior to the initial public offer, if the entity has made full disclosures with respect to such options or scheme in accordance with Part A of Schedule VIII; (ii) a foreign venture capital investor: Provided that such equity shares shall be locked in for a period of at least one year from the date of purchase  by  the  venture  capital  fund  or  alternative  investment  fund  or  foreign  venture  capital investor. equity shares held by a venture capital fund or alternative investment fund of Category I or equity  shares  held  by  persons  other  than  promoters,  continuously  for  a  period  of  at  least (iii) one year prior to the date of listing in case of listing without public issue: pursuant to conversion of fully paid-up compulsorily convertible securities, the holding period of such convertible securities as well as that of resultant equity shares together shall be considered for the purpose of calculation of one year period and the convertible securities shall be deemed to be fully  paid-up,  if  the  entire  consideration  payable  thereon  has  been  paid  at  the  time  of  their conversion.
(2) The specified securities held by promoters and locked-in may be pledged with any scheduled commercial bank or public financial institution as collateral security for loan granted by such bank or institution if the pledge of specified securities is one of the terms of sanction of the loan.
(3) The specified securities that are locked-in may be transferable in accordance with regulation 40 of these regulations.
(4) All specified securities allotted on a discretionary basis shall be locked-in in accordance with the  requirements  for  lock-in  by  Anchor  Investors  on  main  board  of  the  stock  exchange,  as specified under clause 10(j) in Part A of Schedule XI. Trading lot.
106ZC. The minimum trading lot shall be ten lakh rupees. Exit of entities listed without making a public issue.
106ZD.  (1)  An  entity  whose  specified  securities  are  listed  on  the  institutional  trading  platform without making a public issue may exit from that platform, if- (a) its  shareholders  approve  such  exit  by  passing  a  special  resolution  through  postal  ballot where ninety per cent of the total votes and the majority of non-promoter votes have been cast in favor of such proposal; and (b)
(2)  The recognised stock exchange may delist the specified securities of an entity listed without making  a  public  issue  upon  non-compliance  of  the  conditions  of  listing  and  in  the  manner  as specified by the stock exchange.
(3) No entity promoted by promoters and directors of an entity delisted under sub-regulation (2), shall be permitted to list on institutional trading platform for a period of five years from the date of such delisting: Provided  that  the  provisions  of  this  regulation  shall  not  apply  to  another  entity  promoted  by  the independent directors of such a delisted entity. Migration to main board.
106ZE.  An  entity  that  has  listed  its  specified  securities  on  a  recognised  stock  exchange  in accordance with the provisions of  this Chapter may at its option migrate to the main board of that recognised  stock  exchange  after  expiry  of  three  years  from  the  date  of  listing  subject  to compliance with the eligibility requirements of the stock exchange. Repeal and saving.
106ZF.    The  provisions  of  Chapter  XC  and  all  directions,  guidelines,  instructions  or  circulars, issued  by  the  Board  as  applicable  to  small  and  medium  enterprises  which  are  listed  on  the institutional  trading  platform,  as  on  the  date  of  commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2015 shall continue to remain in force for the period such companies are listed on the institutional trading platform or till such time as specified by the Board, whichever is earlier, as if Chapter XC had not been repealed. the recognised stock exchange where its shares are listed approve of such an exit. shall be construed as ‘pre-listing’ and ‘post-listing’, respectively, in case of listing without public issue.] LISTING OF SECURITIES ON STOCK EXCHANGES 205[CHAPTER XI In-principle approval of recognized stock exchange(s).
107. approval from recognised stock exchange as follows:
(1) The issuer or the issuing company, as the case may be, shall obtain in-principle (a)  in case of an initial public offer or an issue of Indian Depository Receipts (hereinafter referred to as ‘IDRs’) , from all the recognised stock exchange(s) on which the issuer or the issuing company, proposes to get its specified securities or IDRs, as the case may be, listed; and (b) in case of other issues, before issuance of further securities, as follows: (i)  where  the  securities  are  listed  only  on  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  having nationwide trading terminals, from all such stock exchange(s); (ii)  where  the  securities  are  not  listed  on  any  recognised  stock  exchange  having nationwide trading terminals, from all the stock exchange(s) on which the securities of the issuer are proposed to be listed; (iii) where the specified   are listed on recognised stock exchange(s) having nationwide trading  terminals  as  well  as  on  the  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  not  having nationwide terminals,  from  all  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  having nationwide trading terminals. trading
(1) The issuer or the issuing company, as the case may be, shall complete  the pre- Application for Listing.
108. listing formalities within the time lines specified by the Board from time to time.
(2)  The  issuer  or  the  issuing  company,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall,  make  an  application  for listing,  within  twenty  days  from  the  date  of  allotment,  to  one  or  more  recognized  stock exchange(s) along with the documents specified by stock exchange(s) from time to time.
(3)  In  case  of  delay  in  making  application  for  listing  beyond  twenty  days  from  the  date  of allotment, the issuer or the issuing company, as the case may be, shall pay penal interest to allottees for each day of delay at the rate of atleast ten per cent. per annum from the expiry of thirty days from date of allotment till the listing of such securities to the allottees.
(4) In the event of non-receipt of listing permission from the stock exchange(s) by the issuer or the issuing company, as the case may be, or withdrawal of Observation Letter issued by the Board, wherever applicable, the securities shall not be eligible for listing and the issuer or the issuing company, as the case may be, shall be liable to refund the subscription monies, if any, to the respective allottees immediately alongwith interest at the rate of ten per cent. per annum from the date of allotment. Listing Agreement.
109. (1) Every issuer or the issuing company desirous of listing its securities  on a recognised stock exchange shall execute a listing agreement with such stock exchange.
(2) Every issuer or the issuing company which has previously entered into agreement(s) with a recognised stock exchange to list its  securities  shall execute a fresh listing agreement with such stock exchange within six months of the date of notification of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. Obligation of stock exchange(s).
110.    The  stock  exchange(s)  shall  grant  in-principle  approval/list  the  securities  or  reject  the application for in-principle approval /listing by the issuer or issuing company, as the case maybe, within thirty days from the later of the following dates: (a)  the  date  of  receipt  of  application  for  in-principle  approval/listing  from  issuer  or  the  issuing company, as the case may be,; (b) the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the issuer or the issuing company, as the case may be, in cases where the stock exchange(s) has sought any clarification from them.] 206[CHAPTER XII] MISCELLANEOUS Directions by the Board.
207[111.]  Without  prejudice  to  the  power  under  sections  11,  11A,  11B,  11D,  sub-section  (3)  of section 12, Chapter VIA and section 24 of the Act or section 621 of the Companies Act, 1956, the Board  may  either  suo  motu  or  on  receipt  of  information  or  on  completion  or  pendency  of  any inspection, inquiry or investigation, in the interests of investors or the securities market, issue such directions or orders as it deems fit including any or all of the following: (a)  directing the persons concerned not to access the securities market for a specified period; (b)  directing the person concerned to sell or divest the securities; (c)  any other direction which Board may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of the case: Provided  that  the  Board  shall,  either  before  or  after  issuing  such  direction  or  order,  give  a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the person concerned: Provided further that if any interim direction or order is required to be issued, the Board may give post-decisional hearing to the person concerned. 208[Liability for contravention of the Act, rules or the regulations.
111A.  (1)  The  listed  entity  or  any  other  person  thereof  who  contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of these regulations, shall, in addition to the liability for action in terms of the securities laws, be liable for  the  following  actions  by  the  respective  stock  exchange(s),  in  the  manner  specified  in  the circulars or guidelines issued by the Board: (a)  imposition of fines; (b)  suspension of trading; 206  Chapter  XI  renumbered  as  Chapter  XII by  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations, (c)  freezing of promoter/promoter group holding of designated securities, as may be applicable, in coordination with depositories; (d)  any other action as may be specified by the Board from time to time. the requirement is procedural in nature; or
(3)  The manner of revocation of actions specified in clauses (b) and (c) of sub-regulation (1), shall be as specified in the circulars or guidelines issued by the Board. Failure to pay fine.
111B.  If  the  listed  entity  fails  to  pay  any  fine  imposed  upon  it  by  the  recognised  stock  exchange(s), within the period as specified from time to time, the stock exchange may initiate such other action in accordance with law, after giving a notice in writing.] Power to remove difficulty.
209[112]. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, the  Board  may  issue  clarifications  through  guidance  notes  or  circulars  after  recording  reasons  in writing. Power to relax strict enforcement of the regulations.
210[113]. [(1)]211 The Board may, in the interest of investors or for the development of the securities market, relax the strict enforcement of any requirement of these regulations, if the Board is satisfied that: (a) (b)  any disclosure requirement is not relevant for a particular class of industry or issuer; or (c)
212[(2)    For  seeking  relaxation  under  sub-regulation  (1),  an  application,  giving  details  and  the grounds on which such relaxation has been sought, shall be filed with the Board.
(3)  The application referred to under sub-regulation (2) shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee  of  rupees  one  lakh  payable  by  way  of  direct  credit  in  the  bank  account  through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or by way of a demand draft in favour of the Board payable in Mumbai.] Amendments to other regulations.
213[114].  On  and  from  the  commencement  of  these  regulations,  the  regulations  mentioned  in Schedule XX shall stand amended to the extent specified therein. Repeal and Savings.
214[115].  (1)  On  and  from  the  commencement  of  these  regulations,  the  Securities  and  Exchange Board of India (Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000 shall stand rescinded.
3. For the purposes of seeking registration under these regulations, the applicant shall make an application to the Board in Form A along with the application fee as specified in Part A of the Second Schedule to be paid in the manner specified in Part B thereof. Eligibility Criteria.
4.  (1)  For  the  purpose  of  the  grant  of  a  certificate  to  an  applicant  as  a  Foreign Venture  Capital  Investor,  the  Board  shall  consider  the  following  conditions  for eligibility, namely:- (a) the  applicants track record,  professional  competence, financial soundness, experience, general reputation of fairness and integrity. (b) Whether  the  applicant  has  been  granted  necessary  approval  by  the Reserve Bank of India for making investments in India; 2[* * *] (c) whether  the  applicant  is  an  investment  company,  investment  trust, investment  partnership,  pension  fund,  mutual  fund,  endowment  fund, university  fund,  charitable  institution  or  any  other  entity  incorporated outside India; or (d) whether  the  applicant  is  an  asset  management  company,  investment manager  or  investment  management  company  or  any  other  investment vehicle incorporated outside India; 1[* * *] (e) whether  the  applicant  is  authorised  to  invest  in  venture  capital  fund  or carry  on  activity  as  a  2[foreign  venture  capital  investors];  3[or  Alternative Investment Fund] 4[* * *] (f)  whether  the  applicant  is  regulated  by  an  appropriate  foreign  regulatory authority or is an income tax payer; or submits a certificate from its banker of  its  or  its  promoter’s  track  record  where  the  applicant  is  neither  a regulated entity nor an income tax payer. (g) the applicant has not been refused a certificate by the Board. (h) whether the applicant is a fit and proper person. 5[Criteria for fit and proper person].
4A. For the purposes of determining whether an applicant or the foreign venture capital  investor  is  a  fit  and  proper  person  the  Board  may  take  into  account  the criteria  specified  in  Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.] Furnishing of information, clarification.
5.  The  Board  may  require  the  applicant  to  furnish  such  further  information  as  it may consider necessary. Consideration of application
6.  An  application  which  is  not  complete  in  all  respects  shall  be  rejected  by  the Board: Provided  that,  before  rejecting  any  such  application,  the  applicant  shall  be given  an  opportunity  to  remove,  within  thirty  days  of  the  date  of  receipt  of communication, the objections indicated by the Board. Provided further that the Board may, on being satisfied that it is necessary to extend  the  period  specified  above  may  extend  such  period  not  beyond  ninety days. Procedure for grant of certificate.
7.  (1)  If  the  Board  is  satisfied  that  the  applicant  is  eligible  for  the  grant  of certificate, it shall send an intimation to the applicant.
(2) On receipt of intimation, the applicant shall pay to the Board, the registration fee specified in Part A of the Second Schedule in the manner specified in Part B thereof.
(3)  The  Board  shall  on  receipt  of  the  registration  fee  grant  a  certificate  of registration in Form B. Conditions of certificate.
8.  The  certificate  granted  to  the  foreign  venture  capital  1[investor]  under regulation 7 shall be inter alia, subject to the following conditions, namely:- (a) it shall abide by the provisions of the Act, and these regulations; (b) it shall appoint a domestic custodian for purpose of custody of securities; (c)  it  shall enter  into  arrangement  with a  designated  bank  for  the  purpose  of operating a special non-resident rupee or foreign currency account. (d) it shall forthwith inform the Board in writing if any information or particulars previously  submitted  to  the  Board  are  found  to  be  false  or  misleading  in any material particular or if there is any change in the information already submitted. Procedure where certificate is not granted.
9.  (1)  On  considering  an application  made  under regulation  3,  if  the  Board  is  of the opinion that a certificate should not be granted, it may reject the application after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(2) The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the applicant. Effect of refusal to grant certificate.
10.  Any  applicant  whose  application  has  been  rejected  under  regulation  9  shall not carry on any activity as a Foreign Venture Capital Investor. CHAPTER III INVESTMENT CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS Investment Criteria for a Foreign Venture Capital Investor.
11.  All  investments  to  be  made  by  a  foreign  venture  capital  investors  shall  be subject to the following conditions:- (a) it shall disclose to the Board its investment strategy. (b) 1[*  *  *]  it  can  invest  its  total  funds  committed  in  one  venture  capital  fund 2[or alternative investment fund]  3[* * *]. (c) it shall make investments 4[* * *] as enumerated below: (i)  at  least  5[66.67%]  of  the  investible  funds  shall  be  invested  in  unlisted equity  shares  or  equity  linked  instruments  6[of  1[venture  capital undertaking  or  investee  company  as  defined  in  clause  (o)  of  sub- regulation (1) of regulation 2 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulation, 2012]; (ii)  not  more  than  2[33.33%]  of  the  investible  funds  may  be  invested  by way of: (a)  subscription to initial public offer of a 3[venture capital undertaking or investee company as defined in clause (o) of sub-regulation (1) of  regulation  2  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Alternative  Investment  Funds)  Regulation,  2012]  whose  shares are proposed to be listed 4[* * *]; (b)  debt  or  debt  instrument  of  a  5[venture  capital  undertaking  or investee company as defined in clause (o) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation  2  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of India (Alternative  Investment  Funds)  Regulation,  2012]  in  which  the 6[foreign  venture  capital investor]  has  already  made  an investment by way of equity; 7[(c)  preferential allotment of equity shares of a listed company subject to lock in period of one year. financially  weak  company”  means  a  company,  which  has  at  the end of the previous financial year accumulated losses, which has resulted  in  erosion  of  more  than  50%  but  less  than  100%  of  its networth as at the beginning of the previous financial year; (d) it shall disclose the duration of life cycle of the fund; (e)  special  purpose  vehicles  which  are  created  for  the  purpose  of facilitating  or  promoting  investment  in  accordance  with  these Regulations. investment  conditions  and restrictions stipulated in clause (c) of regulation 11 shall be achieved by the Foreign Venture Capital Investor by the end of its life cycle.] CHAPTER IV GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES Maintenance of books and records.
12. (1) Every Foreign Venture Capital Investor shall maintain for a period of eight years, books of accounts, records and documents which shall give a true and fair picture of the state of affairs of the Foreign Venture Capital Investor.
(2) Every Foreign Venture Capital Investor shall intimate to the Board, in writing, the place where the books, records and documents referred to in sub-regulation
(1) are being maintained. Power to call for information.
13.  (1)  The  Board  may  at  any  time  call  for  any  information  from  a  Foreign Venture  Capital  Investor  with  respect  to  any  matter  relating  to  its  activity  as  a Foreign Venture Capital Investor.
(2)  Where  any  information  is  called  for  under  sub-regulation  (1)  it  shall  be furnished within the time specified by the Board. General Obligations and Responsibilities.
14. (1) Foreign Venture Capital Investor or a global custodian acting on behalf of the  foreign  venture  capital  investor  shall  enter  into  an  agreement  with  the domestic custodian to act as a custodian of securities for Foreign Venture Capital Investor.
(2) Foreign  Venture  Capital Investor  shall  ensure  that  domestic  custodian  takes steps for,- (a) monitoring of investment of Foreign Venture Capital Investors in India (b) furnishing of periodic reports to the Board (c) furnishing such information as may be called for by the Board. Appointment of designated bank.
15. Foreign Venture Capital Investor shall appoint a branch of a bank approved by  Reserve  Bank  of  India  as  designated  bank  for  opening  of  foreign  currency denominated accounts or special non-resident rupee account. CHAPTER V INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATIONS Board's right to inspect or investigate.
16. The Board may, suo-moto or upon receipt of information or complaint, cause an inspection or investigation to be made in respect of conduct and affairs of any foreign  venture  capital  investor  by  an  Officer  whom  the  Board  considers  fit  for any of the following reasons namely:- (a) to  ensure  that  the  books  of  account,  records  and  documents  are  being maintained by the foreign venture capital investor in the manner specified in these regulations. (b) to inspect or investigate into complaints received from investors, clients or any  other person,  on  any  matter  having  a  bearing on  the  activities  of  the foreign venture capital investor; (c) to  ascertain  whether  the  provisions  of  the  Act  and  these  regulations  are being complied with by the foreign venture capital investor; and (d) to  inspect  or  investigate  suo-moto  into  the  affairs  of  a  foreign  venture capital investor in the interest of the securities market or in the interest of investors. Obligation  of  Foreign  Venture  Capital Investor  on investigation  or inspection by Board.
17. (1) It shall be the duty of every Foreign Venture Capital Investor in respect of whom  an  inspection  or  investigation  has  been  ordered  under  regulation  16  and any  other  person  associated  who  is  in  possession  of  relevant  information pertaining  to  conduct  and  affairs  of  such  Foreign  Venture  Capital  Investor including  asset  management  company  or  fund  manager,  to  produce  to  the Inspecting or Investigating Officer such books, accounts and other documents in his  custody  or  control  and  furnish  him  with  such  statements  and  information  as the said Officer may require for the purposes of the inspection or investigation.
(2) It shall be the duty of Foreign Venture Capital Investor and any other person associated who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs  of  the  Foreign  Venture  Capital  Investor  to  give  to  the  Inspecting  or Investigating Officer all such assistance and shall extend all such co-operation as may  be  required  in  connection  with  the  inspections  or  investigations  and  shall furnish  such  information  sought  by  the  Inspecting  or  Investigating  Officer  in connection with the inspections or investigations.
(3) The Inspecting or Investigating Officer shall, for the purposes of inspection or investigation,  have  power  to  examine  on  oath  and  record  the  statement  of  any person  responsible  for  or  connected  with  activities  of  Foreign  Venture  Capital Investor or any other person associated having relevant information pertaining to such Foreign Venture Capital Investor.
(4) The Inspecting or Investigating Officer shall, for the purposes of inspection or investigation,  have  power  to  get  authenticated  copies  of  documents,  books, accounts of Foreign Venture Capital Investor, from any person having control or custody of such documents, books or accounts. Submission of the Report.
18.  The  Inspecting  or  Investigating  Officer  shall  on  completion  of  inspection  or investigations, submit a report to the Board. Board's right to issue any direction to Foreign Venture Capital Investor.
19.  The  Board  may  after  consideration  of  the  inspection  or  investigation  report and  after  giving  a  reasonable  opportunity  of  hearing  to  the  Foreign  Venture Capital  Investor,  require  it  to  take  such  measure  or  issue  such  directions  as  it deems fit in the interest of capital market and investors, including directions in the nature of: - (a) requiring the person concerned to dispose of the securities or disinvest in a manner as may be specified in the directions; (b) requiring the person concerned not to further invest for a particular period; (c) prohibiting  the  person  concerned  from  operating  in  the  capital  market  in India for a specified period. CHAPTER VI PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT Board's right to suspend or cancel certificate of registration.
20. Without prejudice to the appropriate directions or measures under regulation 19,  it  may  after  consideration  of  the  investigation  report,  initiate  action  for suspension  or  cancellation  of  the  registration  of  such  Foreign  Venture  Capital Investor: Provided  that  no  such  certificate  of  registration  shall  be  suspended  or cancelled unless the procedure specified in regulation 23 is complied with. Suspension of certificate.
21.  The  Board  may  suspend  the  certificate  where  the  Foreign  Venture  Capital Investor: (a) contravenes any of the provisions of the Act or these regulations; (b) fails to furnish any information relating to its activity as a Foreign Venture Capital Investor as required by the Board; (c) furnishes  to  the  Board  information  which  is  false  or  misleading  in  any material particular; (d) does not submit periodic returns or reports as required by the Board; (e) does not co-operate in any enquiry or inspection conducted by the Board; Cancellation of certificate.
22.  The  Board  may  cancel  the  certificate  granted  to  a  Foreign  Venture  Capital Investor: - (a)  when  the  Foreign  Venture  Capital  Investor  is  guilty  of  fraud  or  has  been convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude; assigned to it in section 17 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. (9 of 1872); (b) the Foreign Venture Capital Investor has been guilty of repeated defaults of the nature mentioned in the regulation 21; or (c)  Foreign  Venture  Capital  Investor  does  not  continue  to  meet  the  eligibility criteria laid down in these regulations; (d) contravenes any of the provisions of the Act or these regulations. Manner of making order of cancellation or suspension.
23.  No  order  of  penalty  or  cancellation  of  certificate  shall  be  imposed  on  the Foreign  Venture  Capital  Investor  except  after  holding  an  enquiry  in  accordance with  the  procedure  specified  in  1[Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008]. 24 to 27. 2[* * *] Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty)  Regulations,  2002”  by  the  SEBI  (Intermediaries) Appeal to 1[Securities Appellate Tribunal].
29. Any person aggrieved by an order of the Board under these regulations may prefer an appeal to the Securities Appellate Tribunal in accordance with section 15T of the Act. 2[CHAPTER VII POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
30.  (1)  The  Board  may,  exempt  any  person  or  class  of  persons  from  the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be  specified  but  not  exceeding  twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new  products,  processes,  services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
3. Convening of Meetings
(1)    Meetings of the Board shall be convened at least once in each quarter of the year by the Chairman or in his absence, by any member nominated by the Chairman, in this behalf.
(2)     Any two members may require the Chairman to convene a meeting of the Board at any time and the Chairman shall convene the meeting of the Board accordingly: Provided  that  if  the  Chairman  is  not  available,  any  two  members  may  require  the  Secretary  to convene the meeting of the Board.
3. Presiding over meetings
(1)     The Chairman or if he is unable to attend the meeting of the Board, for any reason, any other member chosen by the members present at the meeting, shall preside over the meeting.
4. Place and time of meetings Meetings of the Board shall be held at such times and places in India as may be specified in the notice convening the meeting.
5. Notice
(1)     Not less than ten days notice shall ordinarily be given of each meeting of the Board and such notice along with agenda papers shall be sent to every member ten working days in advance at his usual address in India as furnished by him to the Board: Provided that if an emergency meeting of the Board is required to be convened, ten days notice may not be required. However, sufficient notice shall be given to the member to enable him to attend the meeting: Provided further that a resolution may be passed or a decision taken by circulation of an agenda to the members.
(2)     No business other than that for which the meeting was convened shall be discussed at a meeting of the Board, except with the consent of the Chairman or the member presiding at the meeting and a majority of the members present.
6. Quorum
(1)       Three members of the Board shall constitute the Quorum for the transaction of business at a meeting of the Board.
(2)      All questions which come up before any meeting of the Board shall be decided by a majority vote of the members present and voting and in the event of any equality of votes, the Chairman, or in his absence, the member presiding, shall have a second or casting vote.
7. Leave of absence The Board may grant leave of absence to a member not present in the meeting and such leave of absence shall be recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
8. Minutes of the meeting
(1)      The Board shall cause the minutes of all the proceedings to be maintained in the books kept for the purpose which may be in the form of binders containing loose leaves, duly numbered.
(2)     A copy of the proceedings of each meeting of the Board shall be circulated as soon as possible for confirmation  by  the  members.  The  confirmed  minutes  shall  be  signed  by  the  Chairman  or  the member presiding at the succeeding meeting, and taken on record thereafter. Chapter III Obligations of the members
9. Member not to participate in meetings in certain cases Every  member,  who  is  directly  or  indirectly  concerned  or  interested  in  any  matter  coming  up  for consideration at a meeting of the Board, shall, as soon as possible, after the relevant circumstances have come to his knowledge, disclose the nature of his interest at such meeting and such disclosure shall be recorded in the proceedings of the Board and the member shall not take any part in any deliberation or decision of the Board with respect to that matter. or  interest  of  a  member  either  by  himself  or  through  his  relatives  within  the  meaning  of  definition  of section 6 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or by reason of being a partner, director of that concern.
10. Obligation of a member to give information of disqualification
(1)     A  member,  as  soon  as  may  be,  inform  the  Board  if  he  becomes  subject  to  any  of  the disqualifications specified in section 6 of the Act.
(2)     The Board shall inform the Central Government, if it comes to the notice of the Board that any member has attracted the disqualifications referred to in sub-regulation (1).
11. Declaration of fidelity Every member, before entering upon his duties, shall sign a declaration of fidelity and secrecy in the form set out in the Schedule pledging himself to observe strict secrecy in relation to all transactions of the Board and  all  matters  relating  thereto  and  shall  be  by  declaration  pledge  himself  not  to  reveal  any  of  the matters/information which may come to his knowledge in the discharge of his duties except when required or authorised to do so by the Board or by Law. Miscellaneous Chapter IV
12. Officer to be nominated for keeping custody of the minutes book, common seal etc.
(1)    Chairman shall nominate any officer of the Board not below the rank of Grade ‘D’ as Secretary to keep  custody  of  common  seal,  register  of  attendance  of  the  meetings,  minutes  book,  and  other documents/records etc. pertaining to the meetings of the Board.
(2)     The Secretary shall arrange meetings, record minutes and generally ensure that these regulations are followed.
13. Manner and form in which contracts may be executed
(1)     Any contract which, if made between private persons would by law be required to be in writing, signed  by  the  parties  to  be  charged  therewith,  may  be  made  on  behalf  of  the  Board  in  writing signed by any member, officer of the Board or any other person acting under its authority, express or implied and may in the same manner be varied or discharged.
(2)    Any document connected with any contract may be signed and verified on behalf of the Board by any officer authorised by Chairman to sign such document for and on behalf of the Board.
(3)    All contracts made according to the provisions of this regulation shall be valid and binding on the Board.
14. Accounts and documents by whom to be signed
(1)    The Chairman, the whole time members, or any officer as may be nominated by the Chairman by designation or otherwise are hereby severally authorised for and on behalf of the Board to endorse and  transfer  negotiable  instruments,  stock-receipts,  stock,  debentures,  shares,  securities,  and documents of title to movable and immovable properties standing in the name of or held by the Board, and to draw, accept and endorse bills of exchange and other instruments in the current and authorised business of the Board and to sign all other accounts, receipts and documents connected with such business.
(2)     Plaints, written statements, complaints, affidavits, petitions and all other documents connected with  legal  proceedings  may  be  signed  and  verified  on  behalf  of  the  Board  by  any  officer authorised by the Chairman to sign such documents for and on behalf of the Board.
3.  (1)  Any  person  proposing  to  carry  on  business  as  19[custodian]  on  or  after  the commencement of these regulations shall make an application to the Board for grant of a certificate.
(2)  Any  person  who  is  carrying  on  business  as  a  20[custodian]  on  the  date  of commencement of these regulations shall make an application to the Board for grant of certificate within a period of three months from the date of such commencement: Provided that the Board may, in special cases, where it is of the opinion that it is necessary to do so for reasons to be recorded in writing may extend the period up to a maximum of six months from the date of such commencement.
(3) An application for grant of a certificate under sub-regulation (1) or sub regulation
(2)  shall  be  made  in  Form  A  and  shall  be  accompanied  by  an  application  fee  as specified in Part A of the Second Schedule and be paid in the manner specified in Part B thereof.
(4) Any person referred to in sub-regulation (2) who fails to make an application for grant of certificate within the period or the extended period specified therein, shall cease to carry on any activity as 21[custodian] and shall be subject to the directions of the Board with regard to the transfer of records, documents or securities relating to his activities as 22[custodian]. Application to conform to requirements.
4. An application under regulation 3 which is not complete in all respects or which does not conform to the instructions specified therein shall be rejected:    Provided that,  before  rejecting  any  such  application,  the  Board  shall  give  the  applicant  an opportunity to remove the objection, within such time as may be specified by the Board. Furnishing of information, clarification, and personal representation.
5. (1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish such further information or clarification  regarding  matters  relevant  to  the  activities  of  a  23[custodian]  for  the purpose of consideration of the application.
(2) The applicant or his authorised representative shall, if so required, appear before the Board for personal representation, in connection with the grant of certificate. Consideration of application for grant of certificate.
6. (1) For the purpose of the grant of a certificate the Board shall take into account all matters which are relevant to the activities of a  24[custodian] and in particular, whether:— (a) the applicant fulfils the capital requirement in accordance with regulation 7; (b) the applicant has the necessary infrastructure, including adequate office space, vaults for  safe  custody  of  securities  and  computer  systems  capability,  required  to effectively discharge his activities as 25[custodian]; 26[(ba) the applicant has the requisite approvals under any law for the time being in force,  in  connection  with  providing  custodial  services  in  respect  of  27[goods  of  a client or] gold or gold related instruments of a mutual fund 28[or title deeds of a real estate assets held by a real estate mutual funds scheme] ,where applicable]; (c) the applicant has in his employment adequate and competent persons who    have the experience, capacity and ability of managing the business of the  29[custodian]; (d)  the  applicant  has  prepared  a  complete  manual,  setting  out  the  systems  and procedures  to  be  followed  by  him  for  the  effective  and  efficient  discharge  of  his functions  and  the  arms  length  relationships  to  be  maintained  with  the  other businesses, if any, of the applicant; (e) the applicant is a person who has been refused a certificate by the Board or whose certificate has been cancelled by the Board; (f) the applicant, his director, his principal officer or any of his employees is involved in any litigation connected with the securities market; (g) the applicant, his director, his principal officer or any of his employees has at any time been convicted of any offence involving moral turpitude or of any economic offence; 30[(gg)the applicant is a fit and proper person;] and (h) the grant of certificate is in the interest of investors.
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1)  the  Board  shall  not consider  an  application  made  under  regulation  3  unless  the  applicant  is  a  body corporate. 31[Criteria for fit and proper person.
6A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the 32[custodian] is a fit and proper person the Board may take into account the criteria specified in Schedule II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,
2008.] Capital requirement.
7.  (1)  The  capital  requirement  referred  to  in  clause  (a)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of regulation 6 shall be a net worth of a minimum of rupees fifty crores. means the paid-up capital and the free reserves as on the date of the application.
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1)  any  33[custodian] which (a) has been approved by the Board under the provisions of Securities and Exchange Board  of  India  (Mutual  Fund)  Regulations, 1993, or  the  Securities  and  Exchange Board  of  India  (Foreign  Institutional  Investors)  Regulations,  1995,  or  the Government of India Guidelines for Foreign Institutional Investors dated September 14, 1992, even if it does not have the net worth specified in sub-regulation (1) may continue to function as a 34[custodian] and shall within a period of one year from the date of commencement of these regulations raise its net worth to that specified in sub-regulation (1): 35[Provided that the period specified above may be extended by the Board upto a maximum of 5 years;] (b) has made an application under regulation 3 shall be permitted to fulfil his capital adequacy  requirements  within  one  month  of  the  receipt  of  certificate        under regulation 8. Procedure and grant of certificate.
8.  (1)  After  considering  the  application  under  regulation  3,  with  reference  to  the matters specified in regulation 6, if the Board on being satisfied that all particulars sought have been furnished and the applicant is eligible for the grant of a certificate, shall send an intimation of the same to the applicant.
(2) On receipt of an intimation from the Board under sub-regulation (1), the applicant shall pay to the Board a registration fee specified in Part A of Second Schedule in the manner specified in Part B thereof. "6A.  Applicability  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Criteria  for  Fit  and  Proper  Person)  Regulations,
2004.─The provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Criteria for Fit and Proper Person) Regulations, 2004 shall, as far as may be, apply to all applicants or the custodians of securities under these regulations."
(3) The Board shall thereafter grant a certificate in Form B to the applicant on receipt of the registration fee: 36[Provided  that  the  Board  may  restrict  the  certificate  of  registration  to  providing custodial services either in respect of securities or 37[goods of a client or] in respect of gold or gold related instruments of a 38[mutual fund] 39[or title deeds of real estate assets held by a real estate mutual funds scheme].]
40[(4)  A  41[custodian]  holding  a  certificate  of  registration  as  on  the  date  of commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Custodian  of Securities)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2006,  may  provide  custodial  services  in respect of gold or gold related instruments of a mutual fund only after taking prior approval of the Board.]
42[(5)  A  43[custodian]  holding  a  certificate  of  registration  as  on  the  date  of commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Custodian  of Securities)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2008  may  provide  custodial  services  in respect of title deeds of real estate assets held by a real estate mutual fund scheme.]
44[(6)  A  custodian  holding  a  certificate  of  registration  as  on  the  date  of commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Custodian  of Securities)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2018,  may  provide  custodial  services  in respect of goods only after taking prior approval of the Board.] Conditions of certificate.
9.  The  certificate  granted  to  45[custodian]  shall  be  subject  to  the  following conditions, namely :─ (a) it shall not commence any activities as  46[custodian] unless it fulfils the capital requirement specified in regulation 7; (b) it shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations in the discharge of its functions as 47[custodian]; (c) it shall enter into a valid agreement with its client for the purpose of providing custodial services; (d)  it  shall  pay  annual  fees  as  specified  in  Part  A  of  the  Second  Schedule  in  the manner specified in Part B thereof; (e) if any information previously submitted by it to the Board is found by it to be false  or  misleading  in  any  material  particular,  or  if  there  is  any  change  in  such information, it shall forthwith inform the Board in writing; and (f) besides providing custodial services, it shall not carry on any activity other than activities relating to rendering of financial services. 48[49]Period of validity.
9A. Every certificate granted under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 8, shall be valid unless it is suspended or cancelled by the Board.] 50[***]] Procedure where certificate is not granted.
10. (1) After considering an application for grant of certificate made under regulation 3, if the Board is satisfied that a certificate should not be granted, the Board may reject  the  application  after  giving  the  applicant  a  reasonable  opportunity  of  being heard.
(2) The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated within thirty days of such decision to the applicant in writing stating therein the grounds on which the application has been rejected.
(3) An applicant, who is aggrieved by the decision of the Board under subregulation
(1) may, within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of communication under sub-regulation (2), apply to the Board for re-consideration of its decision.
3-2019. Prior to substitution the regulation read as below: “Period of validity.
9A.  (1)  Every  certificate  granted  under  sub-regulation  (3)  of  regulation  8  on  and  after  the  commencement  of  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Custodian of Securities) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006, shall be valid for a period of three years from the date of grant of registration or its renewal.
(2) Every certificate granted under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 8 before the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Custodian of Securities) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2006, shall be valid for a period of three years from such commencement or its renewal.”
2019. Prior to omission the regulation read as below: “Renewal of certificate.
9B. (1) A custodian, desirous of having its certificate renewed shall make an application to the Board for renewal of the certificate in Form A, not less than three months before the expiry of its period of validity under regulation 9A.
(2) The application for renewal of certificate shall be dealt with, as far as may be, as if it were an application for the grant of a fresh certificate under regulation 3 and shall be accompanied with the application fee as specified in Schedule II.”
(4) The Board shall, as soon as possible, in the light of the submissions made in the application  for  reconsideration  made  under  sub-regulation  (3)  and  wherever necessary, after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard, convey its decision in writing to the applicant. Effect of refusal to grant certificate.
11. Any 51[custodian] whose application for grant of certificate has been rejected by the Board shall, on and from the date of the receipt of the communication under sub- regulation  (2)  of  regulation 10  cease  to  carry  on  any  activity  as  52[custodian]  and shall be subject to the directions of the Board with regard to the transfer of records documents or securities that may be in its custody or control relating to its activity as 53[custodian]. GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF CUSTODIANS CHAPTER III Code of conduct.
12. Every  54[custodian] shall abide by the Code of Conduct as set out in the Third Schedule. Segregation of activities.
13.  Where  a  55[custodian]  is  carrying  on  any  activity  besides  that  of  acting  as 56[custodian], then,— (i)  the  activities  relating  to  his  business  as  57[custodian]  shall  be  separate  and segregated from all other activities; (ii) its officers and employees engaged in providing custodial services shall not be engaged in any other activity carried on by him. Monitoring, review evaluating and inspecting systems and controls.
14.  (1)  Every  58[custodian]  shall  have  adequate  mechanisms  for  the  purposes  of reviewing, monitoring and evaluating the custodian's controls, systems, procedures and safeguards.
(2) The 59[custodian] shall cause to be inspected annually the mechanism referred to in sub-regulation  (1)  by  an  expert  and  forward  the  inspection  report to  the  Board within three months from the date of inspection. Prohibition of assignment.
15. No 60[custodian] shall assign or delegate its functions as a 61[custodian] to any other person unless such person is a 62[custodian]: 63[Provided  that  a  64[custodian]  may  engage  the  services  of  a  person  not  being  a custodian, for the purpose of physical safekeeping of 65[goods or] gold belonging to its client  66[including] a mutual fund having a gold exchange traded fund scheme, subject to the following conditions— (a)  the  67[custodian]  shall  remain  responsible  in  all  respects  to  its  client  for safekeeping  of  the  68[goods  or]  gold  kept  with  such  other  person,  including  any associated risks; (b) all books, documents and other records relating to the 69[goods or] gold so kept with the other person shall be maintained in the premises of the custodian or if they are  not  so  maintained,  they  shall  be  made  available  therein,  if  so  required  by  the Board; (c) the  70[custodian] shall continue to fulfill all duties to the clients relating to the gold 71[goods or] so kept with the other person, except for its physical safekeeping.] Separate custody account.
16. Every 72[custodian] shall open a separate custody account for each client, in the name  of  the client  whose securities  are in  its custody  and  the assets of one  client shall not be mixed with those of another client. Agreement with the client.
17.  Every  73[custodian]  shall  enter  into  an  agreement  with  each  client  on  whose behalf it is acting as  74[custodian] and every such agreement shall provide for the following matters namely:─ (a) the circumstances under which the 75[custodian] will accept or release securities 76[, goods]77[, assets or documents] from the custody account; (b) the circumstances under which the  78[custodian] will accept or release monies from the custody account; (c)  the  circumstances  under  which  the  79[custodian]  will  receive  rights  or entitlements on the securities 80[or goods] of the client; (d) the circumstances and the manner of registration of securities in respect of each client; and (e) details of the insurance, if any, to be provided for by the 81[custodian]. Internal controls.
18.  (1)  Every  82[custodian]  shall  have  adequate  internal  controls  to  prevent  any manipulation  of  records  and  documents  including  audits  for  securities  83[,  goods] and  rights  or  entitlements  arising  from  the  securities  84[and  goods]  held  by  it  on behalf of its client.
(2) Every  85[custodian] shall have appropriate safekeeping measures to ensure that such  securities  86[,  goods]  87[,  assets  or  documents]  are  protected  from  theft  and natural hazard. Maintenance of records and documents and furnishing of information.
19. (1) Without prejudice to the provisions of any other law for the time being in force  every  88[custodian]  shall  maintain  the  following  records  and  documents, namely:─ (a)  records  containing  details  of  securities  89[,  goods]  90[,  assets  or  documents] received and released on behalf of each client; (b)  records  containing  details  of  monies  received  and  released  on  behalf  of  each client; (c) records containing details of rights or entitlements of each client arising from the securities held on behalf of the client; (d) records containing details of registration of securities in respect of each client; (e) ledger for each client; (f) records containing details of instructions received from and sent to clients; and (g) records of all reports submitted to the Board.
(2) Every 91[custodian] shall intimate to the Board the place where the records and documents under sub-regulation (1) are maintained.
(3) Every 92[custodian] shall preserve the records and documents maintained under sub-regulation (1) for a minimum period of five years. 93[Appointment of compliance officer.
19A.  (1)  Every  94[custodian]  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be responsible  for  monitoring  the  compliance  of  the  Act,  rules  and  regulations, notifications,  guidelines,  instructions,  etc.,  issued  by  the  Board  or  the  Central Government and for redressal of investors' grievances.
(2) The compliance officer shall immediately and independently report to the Board any non-compliance observed by him.] Information to the Board.
20. (1) The Board may,  at any time, call for any information from a  95[custodian] with respect to any matter relating to its activity as 96[custodian].
(2) Where  any  information  is  called  for  by  the  Board under  sub-regulation  (1), it shall  be  the  duly  of  the  97[custodian]  to  furnish  such  information  within  such reasonable period as the Board may specify. CHAPTER IV INSPECTION AND AUDIT Board's right to inspect.
21.  (1)  The  Board  may  appoint  one  or  more  persons  as  inspecting  officer  to undertake  inspection  of  the  hooks  of  account,  records  and  documents  of  the 98[custodian] for any of the following purposes, namely:─ (a) to ensure that the books of account, records and documents are being maintained by the 99[custodian] in the manner specified in these regulations; (b)  to  investigate  into  complaints  received  from  investors,  clients  or  any  other person, on any matter having a bearing on the activities of the 100[custodian]; (c)  to  ascertain  whether  the  provisions  of  the  Act  and these  regulations  are being complied with by the 101[custodian]; and (d) to investigate suo motu into the affairs of the 102[custodian] in the interest of the securities market or in the interest of investors. Notice before inspection.
22. (1) Before ordering an inspection under regulation 21 the Board shall give not less than ten days notice to the 103[custodian].
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1), where  the  Board is satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may by an order in writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the 104[custodian] be taken up without such notice.
(3)  During  the  course  of  an  inspection,  the  105[custodian]  against  whom  the inspection  is  being  carried  out  shall  be  bound  to  discharge  his  obligations  as provided in regulation 23. Obligations of custodian on inspection by the Board.
23. (1) It shall be the duty of the  106[custodian] whose affairs are being inspected, and  of  every  director,  officer  and  employee  thereof  to  produce  to  the  inspecting officer such books, securities, accounts, records and other documents in its custody or  control  and  furnish  him  with  such  statements  and  information  relating  to  his activities  of  the  107[custodian],  as  the  inspecting  officer  may  require,  within  such reasonable period as the inspecting officer may specify.
(2) The 108[custodian] shall allow the inspecting officer to have reasonable access to the premises occupied by such custodian or by any other person on his behalf and also  extend  reasonable  facility  for  examining  any  books,  records,  documents  and computer data in the possession of the 109[custodian] or such other person and also provide  copies  of  documents  or  other  materials  which  in  the  opinion  of  the inspecting officer are relevant for the purposes of the inspection.
(3) The inspecting officer, in the course of inspection, shall be entitled to examine or to record the statements of any director, officer or employee of the 110[custodian].
(4) It shall be the duty of every director, officer or employee of the 111[custodian] to give to the inspecting officer all assistance in connection with the inspection, which the inspecting officer may reasonably require. Submission of report to the Board.
24. The inspecting officer shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection submit an inspection report to the Board: Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he may submit an interim report. 112[Action on inspection or investigation report.
25.  The  Board  or  the  Chairman  shall  after  consideration  of  inspection  or investigation report take such  action  as  the  Board or Chairman  may  deem  fit  and appropriate  including  action  under  113[Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008].] 114[Appointment of auditor.
25A. The Board shall have the power to appoint an auditor to inspect or investigate, as the case may be, into the books of account, records, documents or affairs of the applicant  or  the  custodian,  as  the  case  may  be;  Provided  that  the  auditors  so appointed  shall  have  the  same  powers  as  vested  in  the  inspecting  officer  under regulation 21 and the applicant or custodian and its directors, officers and employees shall  be  under  the  same  obligations,  towards  the  auditor  so  appointed,  as  are mentioned in regulation 23. Board to recover the expenses.
25B. The Board shall be entitled to recover from the custodian or the applicant, as the case may be, such expenses including fees paid to the auditors as may be incurred by it for the purposes of inspecting the books of account, records and documents of the applicant or the custodian as the case may be.] CHAPTER V PROCEDURE EOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 115[Liability for action in case of default.
26. A 116[custodian] who—
(2) On receipt of the reply if any, from the custodian of securities, the Board may call upon the custodian of securities to take such measures as the Board may deem fit in the interest of the securities market and for due compliance with the provisions of the Act, the rules framed thereunder and these regulations. Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002" by the SEBI (Intermediaries) (a) contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, the rules framed thereunder or these regulations; (b) fails to furnish any information relating to his activity as 117[custodian] as required by the Board; (c) furnishes to the Board information which is false and misleading in any material particular; (d) does not submit periodic returns or reports as required by the Board; (e) does not co-operate in any enquiry or inspection conducted by the Board; (f) fails to update its systems and procedures as recommended by the Board; (g) fails to resolve the complaints of clients or fails to give a satisfactory reply to the Board in this behalf; (h) is guilty of misconduct or makes a breach of the Code of Conduct specified in the Third Schedule; (i) fails to pay annual fees, shall be dealt with in the manner provided under 118[Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008].] 119[27 to 32] 120[CHAPTER VI POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
33. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not  exceeding  twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects relating  to  testing new  products, processes, services, business  models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
3. (1) With effect from such date as the Board may, by an order fix, there shall be established an office of Ombudsman for the purposes of these regulations. (2)The Board may, on recommendation of a Selection Committee, appoint one or more Ombudsmen for such territorial jurisdiction as may be specified from time to time by an order. (3)The Selection Committee referred in sub-regulation (2) shall consist of the following members, namely:- 1[(i) nominated by the Chairman; an expert in the area relating to financial market operations to be (ii) economics, to be nominated by the Chairman;] a person having special knowledge and experience of law, finance or (iii) a representative of the Board not below the rank of Executive Director who shall be Secretary of the Selection Committee, to be nominated by the Chairman.
(4) At the request of the Board, the Selection Committee may also prepare a panel of persons out of which a person may be appointed as Stipendiary Ombudsman. (5)The panel under sub-regulation (4) shall remain in force for a maximum period of two years and shall be reconstituted from time to time. Provided that any person in the existing panel shall be eligible to be included in the reconstituted panel. LOCATION OF OFFICE
4. (1)Office of the Ombudsman shall be located at the Head Office of the Board and if more than one Ombudsman are appointed then the office of any such Ombudsman may be located at any other office of the Board or any other place as may be specified by the Board from time to time. a retired judge of a High Court, to be nominated by the Chairman; an  expert  in  the  area  relating  to  financial  market  operations  or  having  special  market  knowledge  and Provided that the Stipendiary Ombudsman when appointed for any specific complaint or complaints shall be located at such place as may be specified.
(2) In order to expedite disposal of complaints, the Ombudsman or Stipendiary Ombudsman, as the case may be, may hold sittings at such places within his area of jurisdiction as may be considered necessary and proper by him.
(3) The Board may provide the premises and other infrastructures including staff or secretarial assistance for the office of Ombudsman or Stipendiary Ombudsman, as the case may be. QUALIFICATION
5. In order to be appointed as an Ombudsman a person shall be - i. ii. iii. iv. a citizen of India; of high moral integrity ; not below the age of forty five years of age; and either a. b. c. d. a retired District Judge or qualified to be appointed a District Judge or having at least ten years experience of service in any regulatory body or having special knowledge and experience in law, finance, corporate matters, economics, management or administration for a period not less than ten years, or an office bearer of investors’ association recognised by the Board having experience in dealing with matters relating to investor protection for a period not less than 10 years. DISQUALIFICATION
6. (1) A person shall not be qualified to hold the office of the Ombudsman if he - (i) is an un-discharged insolvent ; (ii) has been convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude; (iii) has been found to be of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent court; (iv) has been charge sheeted for any offence including economic offences ; or (v) has been a whole-time director in the office of an intermediary or a listed company and a period of at least 3 years has not elapsed. 2[Provided that the disqualification provided in clause (v) shall not be applicable in case of a person who has been the whole-time director of a public sector bank or a public sector undertaking. (a) 'public sector bank' means— a corresponding new bank specified in the First Schedule to the Banking (i) Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (5 of 1970); a corresponding new bank specified in the First Schedule to the Banking (ii) Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980 (40 of 1980); the  State  Bank  of  India  constituted  under  the  State  Bank  of  India  Act, (iii) 1955 (23 of 1955); a  subsidiary  bank  as  defined  in  the  State  Bank  of  India  (Subsidiary (iv) Banks) Act, 1959 (38 of 1959); (b) 'public sector undertaking' means any corporation established by or under any  Central,  State  or  Provincial  Act  or  a  Government  company  as  defined  in section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) which is owned, controlled or managed by the Central Government.] TENURE
7.3 [(1) A person appointed as an Ombudsman shall hold office for a term of three years and shall be eligible for reappointment for another period of two years: Provided that no person shall hold the office of Ombudsman after attaining the age of sixty-five years.] (2)The Board, at any time, before the expiry of the period specified under sub-regulation (1) may terminate the services of the Ombudsman by giving him notice of not less than three months in writing  or  three  months  salary  and  allowances  in  lieu  thereof,  and  the  Ombudsman  shall  also have the right to relinquish his office, at any time, before the expiry of period specified under sub-regulation (1), by giving to the Board notice of not less than three months in writing. REMUNERATION
8. The salary, allowances, honorarium or fee payable to, and other terms and conditions of service of, an Ombudsman shall be determined by the Board from time to time. STIPENDIARY OMBUDSMAN -
9. (1) Notwithstanding the appointment of Ombudsman under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3, the Board may appoint a person as a Stipendiary Ombudsman out of the panel prepared under sub-regulation (4) of regulation 3, for the purpose of acting as an Ombudsman in respect of a specific matter or matters in a specific territorial jurisdiction, as may be specified in the order of appointment.
(2) A person shall be eligible to be appointed as Stipendiary Ombudsman who:- (i) has held a judicial post or an executive office under the Central or State Government for atleast ten years or (ii) is having experience of at least ten years in matters relating to consumer or investor protection or (iii) has been a legal practitioner in corporate matters for atleast 10 years or (iv) has served for a minimum period of ten years in any public financial institution within the meaning of section 4A of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or a regulatory body.
(3) Save as otherwise specified by the Board, the Stipendiary Ombudsman shall exercise all powers and functions as are vested in a Ombudsman under these regulations.
(4) The Stipendiary Ombudsman shall be paid such fees or honorarium and allowances for the services rendered by him, as may be determined by the Board from time to time. TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION –
10. Every Ombudsman or Stipendiary Ombudsman shall exercise jurisdiction in relation to an area as may be specified by the Board by an order. CHAPTER III POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF OMBUDSMAN GENERAL
11. The Ombudsman shall have the following powers and functions :- (a) to receive complaints specified in regulation 13 against any intermediary or a listed company or both; (b) to consider such complaints and facilitate resolution thereof by amicable settlement; (c) to approve a friendly or amicable settlement of the dispute between the parties; (d) to adjudicate such complaints in the event of failure of settlement thereof by friendly or amicable settlement. OTHER POWERS AND FUNCTIONS
12. (1) The Ombudsman shall - a.  draw up an annual budget for his office in consultation with the Board and shall incur expenditure within and in accordance with the provisions of the approved budget; b.  submit an annual report to the Board within three months of the close of each financial year containing general review of activities of his office; and c.  furnish from time to time such information to the Board as may be required by the Board.
(2) Every financial year of the Ombudsman shall end on 31st March of each year and the annual report shall be given in such form and manner as may be specified by the Board. CHAPTER IV PROCEDURE FOR REDRESSAL OF GRIEVANCE GROUNDS OF COMPLAINT
13. A person may lodge a complaint on any one or more of the following grounds either to the Board or to the Ombudsman concerned :- i.  Non-receipt of refund orders, allotment letters in respect of a public issue of securities of companies or units of mutual funds or collective investments schemes; ii.  Non-receipt of share certificates, unit certificates, debenture certificates, bonus shares; iii.  Non-receipt of dividend by shareholders or unit-holders; iv.  Non-receipt of interest on debentures, redemption amount of debentures or interest on delayed payment of interest on debentures ; v.  Non-receipt of interest on delayed refund of application monies; vi.  Non-receipt of annual reports or statements pertaining to the portfolios; vii.  Non-receipt of redemption amount from a mutual fund or returns from collective investment scheme; viii.  Non-transfer of securities by an issuer company, mutual fund, Collective Investment Management Company or depository within the stipulated time; ix.  Non-receipt of letter of offer or consideration in takeover or buy-back offer or delisting; x.  Non-receipt of statement of holding corporate benefits or any grievances in respect of corporate benefits, etc; xi.  Any grievance in respect of public, rights or bonus issue of a listed company ; xii.  Any of the matters covered under section 55A of the Companies Act, 1956; xiii.  Any grievance in respect of issue or dealing in securities against an intermediary or a listed company. PROCEDURE OF FILING COMPLAINT –
14(1) Any person who has a grievance against a listed company or an intermediary relating to any of the matters specified in regulation 13 may himself or through his authorised representative or any investors association recognised by the Board, make a complaint against a listed company or an intermediary to the Ombudsman within whose jurisdiction the registered or corporate office of such listed company or intermediary is located. Provided that if the Board has not notified any Ombudsman for a particular locality or territorial jurisdiction, the complainant may request the Ombudsman located at the Head Office of the Board for forwarding his complaint to the Ombudsman of competent jurisdiction.
(2) The complaint shall be in writing duly signed by the complainant or his authorised representative (not being a legal practitioner) in the Form specified in the Schedule to these regulations and supported by documents, if any.
(3) No complaint to the Ombudsman shall lie - (a) unless the complainant had, before making a complaint to the Board or the Ombudsman concerned, made a written representation to the listed company or the intermediary named in the complaint and the listed company or the intermediary, as the case may be, had rejected the complaint or the complainant had not received any reply within a period of one month after the listed company or intermediary concerned received his representation or the complainant is not satisfied with the reply given to him by the listed company or an intermediary; (b) unless the complaint is made within six months from the date of the receipt of communication of rejection of his complaint by the complainant or within seven months after the receipt of complaint by the listed company or intermediary under clause (a) above. (c) if the complaint is in respect of the same subject matter which was settled through the Office of the Board or Ombudsman concerned in any previous proceedings, whether or not received from the same complainant or along with any one or more or other complainants or any one or more of the parties concerned with the subject matter; (d) if the complaint pertains to the same subject matter for which any proceedings before the Board or any court, tribunal or arbitrator or any other forum is pending or a decree or award or a final order has already been passed by any such competent authority, court, tribunal, arbitrator or forum. (e) if the complaint is in respect of or pertaining to a matter for which action has been taken by the Board under Section 11(4) of the Act or Chapter VI A of the Act or under sub-section (3) of section 12 of the Act or under any other regulations made under the Act.
(4) The Ombudsman may dismiss in limine a complaint on any of the grounds specified under sub-regulation (3) or when such complaint is frivolous in his opinion. POWER TO CALL FOR INFORMATION 15(1)For the purpose of carrying out his duties under these regulations, an Ombudsman may require the listed company or the intermediary named in the complaint or any other person, institution or authority to provide any information or furnish certified copy of any document relating to the subject matter of the complaint which is or is alleged to be in its or his possession: Provided that in the event of the failure of a listed company or the intermediary to comply with the requisition made under sub-regulation (1) without any sufficient cause, the Ombudsman may, if he deems fit, draw the inference that the information, if provided or copies if furnished, would be unfavourable to the listed company or intermediary. (2)The Ombudsman shall maintain confidentiality of any information or document coming to his knowledge or possession in the course of discharging his duties and shall not disclose such information or document to any person except and as otherwise required by law or with the consent of the person furnishing such information or document: Provided that nothing in sub-regulation (2) shall prevent the Ombudsman from disclosing information or document furnished by a party in a complaint to the other party or parties, to the extent considered by him to be reasonably required to comply with the principles of natural justice and fair play in the proceedings. Provided further that provisions of sub-regulation (2) shall not apply in relation to the disclosures made or information furnished by the Ombudsman to the Board or to the publication of Ombudsman’s award in any journal or newspaper or filing thereof before any Court, Forum or authority. SETTLEMENT BY MUTUAL AGREEMENT
16(1) As soon as it may be practicable so to do, the Ombudsman shall cause a notice of the receipt of any complaint along with a copy of the complaint sent to the registered or corporate office of the listed company or office of the intermediary named in the complaint and endeavour to promote a settlement of the complaint by agreement or mediation between the complainant and the listed company or intermediary named in the complaint.
(2) If any amicable settlement or friendly agreement is arrived at between the parties, the Ombudsman shall pass an award in terms of such settlement or agreement within one month from the date thereof and direct the parties to perform their obligations in accordance with the terms recorded in the award.
(3) For the purpose of promoting a settlement of the complaint, the Ombudsman may follow such procedure and take such actions as he may consider appropriate. AWARD ON ADJUDICATION 17 (1) In the event the matter is not resolved by mutually acceptable agreement within a period of one month of the receipt of the complaint or such extended period as may be permitted by the Ombudsman, he shall, based upon the material placed before him and after giving opportunity of being heard to the parties, give his award in writing or pass any other directions or orders as he may consider appropriate.
(2) The award on adjudication shall be made by Ombudsman within a period of three months from the date of the filing of the complaint. Provided that no award shall be invalidated by reason alone of the fact that the award was made beyond the said period of three months.
(3) The Ombudsman shall send his award to the parties to the adjudication to perform their obligations under the award. CORRECTION OF AWARD 18 (1) Within fifteen days from the receipt of the award a party, with notice to the other party, may request the Ombudsman to correct any computation errors, any clerical or typographical errors or any other errors of a similar nature occurring in the award.
(2) If the Ombudsman considers the request made under sub-regulation (1) to be justified, he shall make the correction within fifteen days from the receipt of the request which shall form part of the award.
(3) The Ombudsman may also rectify any error of the type referred to in sub-regulation (1), on his own initiative, within fifteen days from the date of the award. EVIDENCE ACT NOT TO APPLY IN THE PROCEEDINGS BEFORE OMBUDSMAN
19(1) In proceedings before the Ombudsman strict rules of evidence under the Evidence Act shall not apply and the Ombudsman may determine his own procedure consistent with the principles of natural justice.
(2) Ombudsman shall decide whether to hold oral hearings for the presentation of evidence or for oral argument or whether the proceeding shall be conducted on the basis of documents and other materials. Provided that it shall not be necessary for an investor to be present at the oral hearing of proceedings under these regulations and the Ombudsman may proceed on the basis of the documentary evidence submitted before him.
(3) No legal practitioner shall be permitted to represent the defendants or respondents at the proceedings before the Ombudsman except where a legal practitioner has been permitted to represent the complainants by the Ombudsman. FINALITY OF AWARD AND CIRCUMSTANCES OF REVIEW
20.(1) Subject to the provisions of this regulation, an award shall be final and binding on the parties and persons claiming under them respectively.
(2) Any party aggrieved by the award on adjudication may within one month from the receipt of the award under Regulation 17 or corrected award under Regulation 18 may file a petition before the Board setting out the grounds for review of the award.
(3) An award may be reviewed by the Board only if – (a) there is substantial mis-carriage of justice, or (b) there is an error apparent on the face of the award.
(4) Where a petition for review of the award under sub-regulation (2) is filed by a party from whom the amount mentioned in the award is to be paid to the other party in terms of the award, such petition shall not be entertained by the Board unless the party filing the petition has deposited with the Board seventy-five percent of the amount mentioned in the award. Provided that the Board may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, waive or reduce the amount to be deposited under this sub-regulation.
(5) The Board may review the award and pass such order as it may deem appropriate.
(6) The Board shall endeavour to dispose of the matter within a period of forty five days of the filing of the petition for review.
(7) The award passed by the Ombudsman shall remain suspended till the expiry of period of one month for filing review petition under sub-regulation (2) or till the review petition is disposed off by the Board.
(8) The party so directed shall implement the award within 30 days of receipt of the order of the Board on review or within such period as may be specified by the Board in the order disposing off the review petition.
(9) The Board may determine its own procedure consistent with principles of natural justice in the matter of disposing of review petition and may dismiss the petition in limine if it does not satisfy any of the grounds specified in sub-regulation (3). COST AND INTEREST
21.(1)The Ombudsman or the Board, as the case may be, shall be entitled to award reasonable compensation along with interest including future interest till date of satisfaction of the award at a rate which may not exceed one percent per mensem.
(2) The Ombudsman in the case of an award, or the Board in the case of order passed in petition for review of the award, as the case may be, may determine the cost of the proceedings in the award and include the same in the award or as the case may be, in the order.
(3) The Ombudsman or the Board may impose cost on the complainant for filing complaint or any petition for review, which is frivolous. CHAPTER V IMPLEMENTATION OF THE AWARD CONSEQUENCES OF NON-IMPLEMENTATION OF THE AWARD
22. (1) The award shall be implemented by the party so directed within one month of receipt of the award from the Ombudsman or an order of the Board passed in review petition or within such period as specified in the award or order of the Board.
(2) If any person fails to implement the award or order of the Board passed in the review petition, without reasonable cause - (a) he shall be deemed to have failed to redress investors’ grievances and shall be liable to a penalty under section 15C of the Act; (b) he shall also be liable for - i. ii. iii. iv. v. vi. an action under section 11 (4) of the Act ; or suspension or delisting of securities; or being debarred from accessing the securities market; or being debarred from dealing in securities; or an action for suspension or cancellation of certificate of registration; or such other action permissible which may be deemed appropriate in the facts and circumstances of the case. Provided that no such order shall be passed without following the procedure laid down under the relevant rules or regulations. CHAPTER VI DISPLAY OF THE PARTICULARS OF THE OMBUDSMAN DISPLAY OF THE PARTICULARS OF THE OMBUDSMAN IN OFFICE PREMISES AND DOCUMENTS
23(1) Every listed company or intermediary shall display the name and address of the Ombudsman as specified by the Board to whom the complaints are to be made by any aggrieved person in its office premises in such manner and at such place, so that it is put to notice of the shareholders or investors or unit holders visiting the office premises of the listed company or intermediary.
(2) The listed company or intermediary in its offer document or clients agreement shall give full disclosure about the grievance redressal mechanism through Ombudsman under these regulations.
(3) Any failure to disclose the grievance redressal mechanism through Ombudsman under sub- regulation (2) or any failure to display the particulars as per sub-regulation (1) shall attract the penal provisions contained in Section 15A of the Act. REMOVAL OF DIFFICULTIES
3. (1) There shall be a Fund to be called the Investor Protection and Education Fund.
(2) The Fund shall be deemed to have been established on 23rd day of July, 2007, by the ordermade by the Board under section 11 of the Act. Amounts to be credited to the Fund.
4. 1[(1)] The following amounts shall be credited to the Fund:- (a) contribution as may be made by the Board to the Fund; 1  Existing  regulation  re‐numbered  as  sub‐regulation  (1)  by  the  SEBI  (Payment  of  Fees  and  Mode  of  Payment) (b) grants and donations given to the Fund by the Central Government, State Government orany other entity approved by the Board for this purpose; 2[(c) proceeds in accordance with the sub-clause (ii) of clause(e) of sub-regulation (10) of regulation  17  and  sub-regulation  (3)  of  regulation  21  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange Board ofIndia (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011]; (d) security deposits, if any, held by stock exchanges in respect of public issues and rights issues, in the event of de-recognition of such stock exchanges; (e)  amounts  in  the  Investor  Protection  Fund  and  Investor  Services  Fund  of  a  stock exchange,in the event of de-recognition of such stock exchange; 3[(f) amounts forfeited for non-fulfilment of obligations specified in regulation 15B of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-back of Securities) Regulations, 1998; (g)  monies  transferred  in  accordance  with  sub-regulation  (9)  of  regulation  45  of  the Securities andExchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009; (h)  amounts  disgorged  under  section  11B  of  the  Act  or  section  12A  of  the  Securities Contracts(Regulation) Act, 1956 or section 19 of the Depositories Act, 1996;] 4[(f)] interest or other income received out of any investments made from the Fund; 5[(g)] such other amount as the Board may specify in the interest of investors.
6[(2)  For  the  purposes  of  sub-regulation  (1)  above,  the  amounts  shall  be  credited  to  the  Fund through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or by way of a demand draft in favour of the Board payable in Mumbai.] Utilisation of Fund.
5. (1) The Fund shall be utilised for the purpose of protection of investors and promotion ofinvestor education and awareness in accordance with these regulations.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the object in sub-regulation (1), the Fund may be used for the following purposes, namely:- (a)  educational  activities  including  seminars,  training,  research  and  publications, aimed atinvestors; (b) awareness programmes including through media - print, electronic, aimed at investors; (c) funding investor education and awareness activities of Investors’ Associations recognizedby the Board; (d)  aiding  investors’  associations  recognized  by  the  Board  to  undertake  legal proceedings inthe interest of investors in securities that are listed or proposed to be listed; (e)  refund  of  the  security  deposits  which  are  held  by  stock  exchanges  and transferred  to  theFund  consequent  on  de-recognition  of  the  stock  exchange  as mentioned in clause (d) ofregulation 4, in case the concerned companies apply to the Board and fulfill the conditions forrelease of the deposit; (f) expenses on travel of members of the Committee, who are not officials of the Board, andspecial invitees to the meetings of the Committee, in connection with the work of theCommittee; (g) salary, allowances and other expenses of office of Ombudsman; and (h) such other purposes as may be specified by the Board.
7[(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-regulations (1) and (2), amounts disgorged andcredited to the Fund in accordance with clause (h) of regulation 4 of these regulations and  theinterest  accrued  thereon  shall,  in  cases  where  the  Board  deems  fit  to  make restitution  to  eligibleand  identifiable  investors who have suffered losses  resulting  from violation of securities laws, beutilised only for the purposes of such restitution: Provided  that  monies  left  in  the  Fund  after  earmarking  the  amount  for  the  process  of restitution  toeligible  and  identifiable  investors  may  be  utilised  for  the  purposes  of  the Fund specified in sub-regulations(1) and (2): Provided further that no claim for restitution from the disgorged amounts in a specific case shallbe admissible after a period of seven years from the date of invitation of claims for disgorgementin the said case by the Board.]
6. Conditions for Aid. The aid to investors’ associations, as referred to in clause (d) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 5, shall be given by the Board in accordance with the guidelines made by it and subject to the following conditions:- (a) that the aid shall not exceed seventy five per cent. of the total expenditure on legal proceedings; (b) such aid shall not be considered for more than one legal proceeding in a particular matter; (c) if more than one investors’ association applies for seeking legal aid, the investors’ association whose application is received first, shall be considered for such aid. CHAPTER III ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR THE FUND Constitution of the Committee.
7.  (1)  The  Board  shall  constitute  an  advisory  committee  for  recommending  investor educationand  protection  activities  that  may  be  undertaken  directly  by  the  Board  or through  any  otheragency,  for  utilisation  of  the  Fund  for  the  purposes  referred  to  in regulation 5.
(2) The Committee shall consist of the following members, namely:- (a) the Executive Director of the Board in charge of Office of Investor Assistance and Education who shall be the convener of the Committee; (b) two other officials of the Board; (c) five other members who have expertise about the securities market and experience in matters of investor grievance redressal or investor education.
(3) (a) The term of office of members referred in clause (c) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 7 shall be two years, which may be extended for a further period of two years. (b) Any vacancy arising out of resignation, retirement or death of a member or for any other  reason  shall  be  filled  by  the  Board  for  the  remaining period  of  the  term  of  such member.
(4) The Board may dissolve and reconstitute the Committee if, at any time, the Board is of the opinion that the Committee is unable to discharge the functions and duties imposed on it by or under these regulations. Functions of the Committee.
8. The Committee shall consider investor education and protection activities keeping in view  the  purposes  mentioned  in  regulation  5  and  the  regulation  6  and  submit  its recommendations thereon to the Board. Meetings of the Committee.
9. (1) Meetings of the Committee shall be convened at least once in three months by the convener or in his absence, by any member nominated by the convener, on his behalf.
(2)  Four  members  of  the  Committee  shall  constitute  the  quorum  for  the  transaction  of business at a meeting of the Committee.
(3) Every member, who is directly or indirectly interested in any matter coming up for consideration at a meeting of the Committee, shall disclose the nature of his interest at such meeting and such disclosure shall be recorded in the proceedings of the meeting of the Committee and such member shall not take part in any deliberation of the Committee with respect to that matter. Expenses of the Committee.
10.  (1)  The  expenses  including  travel  and  other  allowances  of  members  of  the Committee, who are officials of the Board, and invitees who are officials of the Board, shall be borne by the Board in accordance with their entitlements.
(2) The expenses including travel and other allowances of members of the Committee, who are not officials of the Board, and invitees who are not officials of the Board, may be borne by the Fund. CHAPTER IV INVESTMENT, ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT Investment, maintenance of accounts and audit of accounts.
11. (1) The Board shall ensure maintenance of proper and separate accounts and other relevant records in relation to the Fund giving therein the details of all receipts to, and, expenditure from, the Fund and other relevant particulars in accordance with the SEBI (Form of Annual Statement of Accounts and Records) Rules, 1994 as far as such rules apply.
(2) The accounts referred to in sub regulation (1) shall be prepared and audited before the expiry of six months from the end of each financial year.
(3) The investment of the Fund may be in the manner of investments of other funds of the Board.
3. (1) No person shall buy, sell or otherwise deal in securities as a foreign portfolio investor unless it has obtained a certificate granted by a designated depository participant on behalf of the Board. no-objection certificate in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds)  Regulations,  1996,  shall  be  required  to  obtain  registration  as  a  foreign  portfolio investor, for investment  in  securities in  India,  within  one hundred and eighty days from  the date of notification of these regulations.
(2) An application for the grant of certificate as a foreign portfolio investor shall be made to a designated depository participant in the Form specified by the Government or the Board from time to time and shall be supported by the fee specified in Part A of the Second Schedule. Eligibility criteria of foreign portfolio investor. 4 A designated depository participant shall consider an application for grant of certificate of registration  as  a foreign  portfolio  investor  if  the applicant  satisfies  the  following  conditions namely: - (a)  the applicant is not a resident Indian; (b) the applicant is not a non-resident Indian or an overseas citizen of India; (c)  non-resident Indians or overseas citizens of India or resident Indian individuals can be constituents of the applicant provided they meet conditions specified by the Board from time to time; (d) the applicant is a resident of the country whose securities market regulator is a signatory International  Organization  of  Securities  Commission’s  Multilateral the to Memorandum of Understanding (Appendix A Signatories) or a signatory to the bilateral Memorandum of Understanding with the Board: Provided that an applicant being Government or Government related investor shall be considered as eligible for registration, if such applicant is a resident in the country as may be approved by the Government of India; (e)  the applicant being a bank is a resident of a country whose central bank is a member of Bank for International Settlements: Provided that a central bank applicant need not be a member of Bank for International Settlements; (f)  the applicant  or its underlying investors contributing twenty-five per cent or more in the corpus of the applicant or identified on the basis of control, shall not be the person(s) mentioned  in  the  Sanctions  List  notified  from  time  to  time  by  the  United  Nations Security Council and is not a resident in the country identified in the public statement of Financial Action Task Force as – (i)  a  jurisdiction  having  a  strategic  Anti-Money  Laundering  or  Combating  the Financing of Terrorism deficiencies to which counter measures apply; or (ii) a jurisdiction that has not made sufficient progress in addressing the deficiencies or has not committed to an action plan developed with the Financial Action Task Force to address the deficiencies; (g) the applicant is a fit and proper person based on the criteria specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; (h) any other criteria specified by the Board from time to time: Provided  that  clause  (a),  (d)  and  (e)  shall  not  apply  to  an  applicant  incorporated  or established in an International Financial Services Centre. Categories of foreign portfolio investor.
5.  An  applicant  seeking  registration  as  a foreign  portfolio  investor  may  apply  in  one  of  the categories mentioned hereunder or any other category as may be specified by the Board from time to time – (a)  "Category I foreign portfolio investor" which shall include – (i)  Government and Government related investors such as central banks, sovereign wealth funds, international or multilateral organizations or agencies including entities  controlled  or  at  least  75%  directly  or  indirectly  owned  by  such Government and Government related investor(s); (ii) Pension funds and university funds; (iii)Appropriately regulated entities such as insurance or reinsurance entities, banks, asset  management  companies,  investment  managers,  investment  advisors, portfolio managers, broker dealers and swap dealers; (iv)  Entities from  the  Financial  Action Task  Force  member  countries  2[,  or from any country specified by the Central Government by an order or by way of an agreement or treaty with other sovereign Governments,] which are – I. II. appropriately regulated funds; unregulated funds whose investment manager is appropriately regulated and registered as a Category I foreign portfolio investor: Provided that the investment  manager  undertakes the responsibility  of all the acts of commission or omission of such unregulated fund; III. university  related  endowments  of  such  universities  that  have  been  in existence for more than five years; (v) An  entity  (A)  whose  investment  manager  is  from  the  Financial  Action  Task Force  member  country and  such  an  investment  manager  is  registered  as  a Category I foreign portfolio investor; or (B) which is at least seventy-five per cent owned, directly or indirectly by another  entity, eligible under sub-clause (ii), (iii) and (iv) of clause (a) of this regulation and such  an eligible entity is from a Financial Action Task Force member country: Provided  that  such  an  investment  manager  or  eligible  entity  undertakes  the responsibility of all the acts of commission or omission of the applicants seeking registration under this sub-clause. (b) "Category II foreign portfolio investor" shall include all the investors not eligible under Category I foreign portfolio investors such as – (i) appropriately  regulated  funds  not  eligible  as  Category-I  foreign  portfolio investor; (ii)  endowments and foundations; (iii)  charitable organisations; (iv)  corporate bodies; (v) family offices; (vi)  Individuals; (vii)  appropriately  regulated  entities  investing  on  behalf  of  their  client,  as  per conditions specified by the Board from time to time; (viii) Unregulated funds in the form of limited partnership and trusts; Centre shall be deemed to be appropriately regulated. 2020 Furnishing of information, and personal representation.
6.(1) The Board or the designated depository participant may require the applicant to furnish such further information or clarification as may be considered necessary  for the grant of the certificate of registration as a foreign portfolio investor.
(2)  The  applicant  or  his  authorised  representative  shall,  if  so  required  by  the  Board  or  the designated depository participant, appear before them for personal representation in connection with the grant of a certificate. Certificate of registration
7.(1) The designated depository participant shall on behalf of the Board grant the certificate of registration,  bearing  registration  number  generated  by  National  Securities  Depositories Limited, as specified in the First Schedule to an applicant if it is satisfied that the applicant is eligible and fulfils the requirements as specified in these regulations.
(2) The designated depository participant shall endeavour to dispose of the application for grant of certificate of registration as soon as possible but  not later than thirty days after receipt of application by the designated depository participant, or after the information called for under regulation 6 has been furnished; whichever is later.
(3)  Upon  grant  of  certificate  of  registration  to  the  applicant,  the  designated  depository participant shall remit the fees, as specified in Part A of the Second Schedule, received from the applicant to the Board.
(4) If an applicant seeking registration as a foreign portfolio investor has any grievance with respect to its application or if the designated depository participant has any question in respect of interpretation of any provision of this regulation, it may approach the Board for appropriate instructions.
(5) The foreign  portfolio investor needs to  have a valid registration as long  as it  is holding securities or derivatives in India: Provided that a foreign portfolio investor whose registration is not valid  and who is holding securities or derivatives in India shall be allowed to sell such securities or wind up their open position in derivatives within one year from the date of publication of these regulations. Application to conform to the requirements 8 (1) An application for grant of certificate of registration to act as a foreign portfolio investor, which is not complete in all respects or is false or misleading in any material particular or does not satisfy the requirements specified in these regulations shall be deemed to be deficient and liable to be rejected by the designated depository participant: Provided that before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard and to remove the deficiency, within the time as specified by the designated depository participant.
(2) The decision to reject the application shall be communicated by the designated depository participant to the applicant in writing indicating the grounds for rejection of the application.
(3) The applicant, who is aggrieved by the decision  of the designated depository participant under  sub-regulation  (1)  may,  within  a  period  of  thirty  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of communication under sub-regulation (2), apply to the Board for reconsideration of the decision of the designated depository participant: Provided that such application for reconsideration shall not be considered by the Board where the  rejection  was  on  account  of  technical  reasons  such  as  non-submission  of  complete information, documents, including non-payment of specified fees.
(4)  The  Board  shall,  as  soon  as  possible,  after  considering  the  submissions  made  in  the application  seeking  reconsideration  made  under  sub-regulation  (3)  and  after  giving  a reasonable opportunity of being heard, communicate its decision in writing to the applicant. Suspension, cancellation or surrender of certificate.
9.  (1)  Subject  to  the  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  these  regulations  and  the circulars issued thereunder, the registration granted by the designated depository participant on  behalf  of  the  Board  under  these  regulations  shall  be  permanent  unless  suspended  or cancelled by the Board or surrendered by the foreign portfolio investor.
(2) The suspension and cancellation of the certificate of registration granted by the Board under these regulations, shall be dealt with in the manner as provided in Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.
(3)  When  the  foreign  portfolio  investor  fails  to  pay  the  required  fees  for  continuance  of registration within the specified due date and such foreign portfolio investor does not have any cash or security or derivative position in India, such foreign portfolio investor shall be deemed to  have  applied for  surrender  of  its  registration  and  the  designated  depository  participant  of such foreign portfolio investor shall process the surrender after obtaining the approval from the Board.
(4) Any foreign portfolio investor desirous of surrendering the certificate of registration may request  for  such  surrender  to  the  designated  depository  participant  who  shall  accept  the surrender of the certificate of registration after obtaining approval from the Board.
(5) While accepting the surrender of registration, the designated depository participant may impose such conditions as may be specified by the Board. CHAPTER III APPROVAL OF DESIGNATED DEPOSITORY PARTICIPANT Application to act as a designated depository participant.
10. (1)  No  person  shall  act  as  a  designated  depository  participant  unless  it  has  obtained  the approval of the Board.
(2) An application for approval to act as a designated depository participant shall be made to the Board through a depository with which the applicant has an agreement to act as a participant and shall be accompanied by the application fee specified in Part B  of the Second Schedule which shall be paid in the manner specified therein.
(3) The depository shall forward the application to the Board, as early as possible, but not later than thirty days from the date of its receipt by the depository, along with its recommendations and after certifying that the participant has complied with the eligibility criteria as provided for in these regulations. Eligibility criteria of designated depository participant.
11.  (1) The  Board  shall  not  consider  an  application  for  the  grant  of  approval  as  designated depository participant unless the applicant satisfies the following conditions, (a)  the applicant is a registered depository participant under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996; (b) the applicant is a registered Custodian under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Custodian) Regulations, 1996; (c)  the applicant is an Authorised Dealer Category-1 bank authorised by the Reserve Bank of India under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999; (d) the  applicant  has  a  multinational  presence,  either  through  its  branches  or  through agency  relationships  with  overseas  intermediaries  regulated  in  their respective  home jurisdictions; (e)  the  applicant  has  systems  and  procedures  to  comply  with  the  requirements  of  the Financial Action Task Force Standards, Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, Rules prescribed thereunder and the circulars issued from time to time by the Board; (f)  the applicant is a fit and proper person based on the criteria specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; and (g) any other criteria as may be specified by the Board from time to time.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation, the Board may consider an application from an entity, regulated in India or in its home jurisdiction, for grant of approval to act as designated depository participant, upon being satisfied that the applicant has sufficient experience in providing custodial services and that the grant of such approval is in the interest of the development of the securities market: Provided that such entity   shall be registered with the Board as a participant and custodian, and shall have a tie up with Authorised Dealer Category-1 bank. Furnishing of information, clarification and personal representation.
12.  (1)  The  Board  may  require  the  applicant  or  the  depository  of  which  the  applicant  is  a participant to furnish such further information or clarification as may be considered necessary for grant of approval to act as a designated depository participant.
(2)  The  applicant  or  its  authorised  representative  shall,  if  so  required  by  the  Board,  appear before it for personal representation in connection with the grant of approval. Procedure for granting of approval to designated depository participant.
13. (1)  After  considering  the  application  made  under  regulation  10  of  these  regulations,  the Board may grant approval to the applicant, upon being satisfied that the applicant is eligible and  fulfils  the  requirements  as  specified  in  these  regulations  including  payment  of  fees  as specified in Part B of Second Schedule.
(2) The Board shall dispose of the application for grant of approval as soon as possible but not later than thirty days after receipt of application by the Board or, after all the information called for under regulation 12 has been furnished, whichever is later. Application to conform to the requirements.
14. An application for grant of approval to act as designated depository participant which is not complete in all respects or is false or misleading in any material particular, shall be deemed to be deficient and shall be liable to be rejected by the Board: Provided that, before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given a reasonable opportunity to remove the deficiency, within the time as specified by the Board. Procedure where approval is not granted.
15. (1) Where an application for grant of an approval does not satisfy the requirements specified in these regulations, the Board may reject the application after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(2) The decision to reject the application shall be communicated by the Board to the applicant in writing stating therein the grounds on which the application has been rejected.
(3) The applicant, who is aggrieved by the decision of the Board under sub-regulation (1) may, within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of communication under sub-regulation
(2), apply to the Board for reconsideration of its decision.
(4) The Board shall, as soon as possible, in light of the submissions made in the application for reconsideration  made  under  sub-regulation  (3)  and  after  giving  a  reasonable  opportunity  of being heard, convey its decision in writing to the applicant. Validity of approval.
16. Subject to the compliance with the provisions of the Act, these regulations and the circulars issued  thereunder,  the  approval  granted  by  the  Board  under  these  regulations  shall  be permanent  unless  suspended  or  withdrawn  by  the  Board  or  surrendered  by  the  designated depository participant. Suspension or withdrawal of approval.
17. Where any designated depository participant who has been granted approval under these regulations- (a)  fails to comply with any conditions subject to which an approval has been granted to him under these regulations, or (b) contravenes any of the provisions of the securities laws or directions, instructions or circulars issued thereunder; the  Board  may,  without  prejudice  to  any  action  under  the  securities  laws  or  directions, instructions or circulars issued thereunder, by an order suspend or withdraw such approval after providing the designated depository participant a reasonable opportunity of being heard. Surrender of approval.
18.  (1)  Any  designated  depository  participant,  who  has  been  granted  approval  under  these regulations,  desirous  of  surrendering  the  approval  granted,  may  make  a  request  for  such surrender to the Board.
(2)  While  accepting  the  surrender  under  sub-regulation  (1),  the  Board  may  impose  such conditions  as  it  deems  fit  for  the  protection  of  investors  or  the  clients  of  the  designated depository  participant  or  the  securities  market  and  such  person  shall  comply  with  such conditions. CHAPTER IV INVESTMENT CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS Commencement of investment.
19.  No  foreign  portfolio  investor  shall  make  any  investment  in  securities  in  India  without complying with the provisions of this Chapter. Investment restrictions.
20. (1) A foreign portfolio investor shall invest only in the following securities, namely- (a)  shares, debentures and warrants issued by a body corporate; listed or to be listed on a recognized stock exchange in India; (b)  units  of  schemes  launched by mutual funds under  Chapter V, VI-A and VI-B of  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Fund) Regulations, 1996; (c)  units  of  schemes  floated  by  a  Collective  Investment  Scheme  in  accordance  with  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Collective Investment Schemes) Regulations, 1999; (d) derivatives traded on a recognized stock exchange; (e)  units  of  real  estate  investment  trusts,  infrastructure  investment  trusts  and  units  of Category III Alternative Investment Funds registered with the Board; (f)  Indian Depository Receipts; (g) any debt securities or other instruments as permitted by the Reserve Bank of India for foreign portfolio investors to invest in from time to time; and (h) such other instruments as specified by the Board from time to time.
(2)  Where  a  foreign  portfolio  investor,  prior  to  commencement  of  these  regulations,  holds equity shares in a company whose shares are not listed on any recognised stock exchange, and continues to hold such shares after the initial public offering and listing thereof, such shares shall be subject to lock-in for the same period, if any, as is applicable to shares held by a foreign direct investor placed in similar position, under the policy of the Government of India relating to foreign direct investment for the time being in force.
(3) Nothing contained in sub-regulation (2) shall be deemed to prejudice the applicability of any other law, regulation or guideline.
(4) In respect of investments in the secondary market, the following additional conditions shall apply – (a)  A foreign portfolio investor shall transact in the securities in India only on the basis of taking and giving delivery of securities purchased or sold; (b) Nothing contained in clause (a) shall apply to – (i) any transactions in derivatives on a recognized stock exchange; (ii)  short  selling  transactions in  accordance with  the framework specified by the Board; (iii)  any  transaction  in  securities  pursuant  to  an  agreement  entered  into  with  the merchant  banker  in  the  process  of  market  making  or  subscribing  to unsubscribed  portion  of  the  issue  in  accordance  with  Chapter  IX  of  the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018; (iv) any other transaction specified by the Board; (c)  The transaction involving dealing in securities by a foreign portfolio investor shall be only through stock brokers registered with the Board; (d) Nothing contained in clause (c) of this sub-regulation shall apply to – (i)  transactions in  Government securities and such other securities falling  under the purview of the Reserve Bank of India carried out in the manner as specified by the Reserve Bank of India; (ii)  sale  of  securities  in  response  to  a  letter  of  offer  sent  by  an  acquirer  in accordance  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; (iii)  sale of securities in response to an offer made by any promoter or acquirer in accordance  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Delisting  of Equity shares) Regulations, 2009; (iv)  sale  of  securities  in  accordance  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of India (Buy-back of Securities) Regulations, 2018; (v)  divestment  of  securities  in  response  to  an  offer  by  Indian  companies  in accordance with Operative Guidelines for Disinvestment of Shares by Indian Companies  in  the  overseas  market  through  issue  of  American  Depository Receipts or Global Depository Receipts as notified by the Government of India from time to time; (vi)  any bid for, or acquisition of, securities in response to an offer for disinvestment of shares made by the Central Government or any State Government; (vii)  any  transaction  in  securities  pursuant  to  an  agreement  entered  into  with merchant  banker  in  the  process  of  market  making  or  subscribing  to unsubscribed  portion  of  the  issue  in  accordance  with  Chapter  IX  of  the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018; (viii)   transactions in corporate bonds by foreign portfolio investors; (ix)  transactions  on  the  electronic  book  provider  platform  of  recognised  stock exchanges; (x) transactions to receive, hold and sell unlisted securities as referred at regulation
20(2)  and  transactions  in  unlisted  securities  received  through involuntary corporate  actions  including  a  scheme  of  a  merger  or  demerger  approved  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  as  well  as  the applicable guidelines issued by the Board or pursuant to implementation of any resolution plan approved under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 or in  accordance  with  the  guidelines  issued  by the  Government  of  India  or  the Reserve Bank of India or any other regulator for a scheme of debt resolution: Provided that such unlisted holdings of the foreign portfolio investor shall be treated as Foreign Direct Investment; (xi)  transactions for transfer of right entitlements; (xii)  purchase or sale transactions of illiquid or suspended or delisted securities by a foreign portfolio investor; frequently traded in terms of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018; (xiii)  transactions  between  registered  foreign  portfolio  investors,  who  are  multi investment manager structure of the same beneficial owner and have common Permanent Account Number; and (xiv) any other transaction as may be specified by the Board; (e)  A foreign portfolio investor shall hold, deliver or cause to be delivered securities only in the dematerialized form: Provided that any shares held in the physical form, before the commencement of these regulations,  may  continue  to  be  held  in  the  physical  form,  if  such  shares  cannot  be dematerialised: Provided  further  that  all  the  Rights  Entitlements  may  be  held  or  transferred  in  non- dematerialized form.
(5) In respect of investments in the debt securities, the foreign portfolio investors shall also comply with terms, conditions or directions, specified or issued by the Board or Reserve Bank of India, from time to time, in addition to other conditions specified in these regulations.
(6) Unless otherwise approved by the Board, securities shall be registered in the name of the foreign portfolio investor as a beneficial owner as defined in clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Depositories Act, 1996.
(7)  The  purchase  of  equity  shares  of  each  company  by  a  single  foreign  portfolio  investor including its investor group shall be below ten per cent of the total paid-up equity capital on a fully diluted basis of the company: Provided that where the total investment under these regulations by a foreign portfolio investor including its  investor  group  exceeds  the  threshold  of below ten  per  cent  of  the  total  paid up equity capital in a listed or to be listed company on a fully diluted basis, the foreign portfolio investor shall divest the excess holding within five trading days from the date of settlement of the trades resulting in the breach: Provided further that in case the foreign portfolio investor fails to divest the excess holding, the entire investment in the company by such foreign portfolio investor including its investor group  shall  be  considered  as  investment  under  the  Foreign  Direct  Investment,  as  per  the procedure specified by the Board and the foreign portfolio investor and its investor group shall not make further portfolio investment in that company under these regulations, these regulations. outstanding if all possible sources of conversion are exercised.
(8) An entity, registered as a foreign portfolio investor shall be permitted to invest in Indian securities  as  a  person  resident  outside  India  in  accordance  with  provisions  of  3[the  Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, rules and regulations made thereunder].
(9) 4[***]
(10)  A  foreign  portfolio  investor  may  lend  or  borrow  securities  in  accordance  with  the framework specified by the Board in this regard.
(11)  The  investment  by  the  foreign  portfolio  investor  shall  also  be  subject  to  such  other conditions and restrictions as may be specified by the Government of India from time to time. Conditions for issuance of offshore derivative instruments.
21.  (1)  No  foreign  portfolio  investor  may  issue,  subscribe  to  or  otherwise  deal  in  offshore derivative instruments, directly or indirectly, unless the following conditions are satisfied – (a)  such offshore derivative instruments are issued only by persons registered as Category I foreign portfolio investor; (b) such offshore derivative instruments are issued only to persons eligible for registration as Category I foreign portfolio investors; manager who is from the Financial Action Task Force member country, the investment manager shall not be required to be registered as a Category I foreign portfolio investor; (c)  such offshore derivative instruments are issued after compliance with the ‘know your client’ norms as specified by the Board; and (d) such other conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time.
(2) A foreign portfolio investor shall ensure that any transfer of offshore derivative instruments issued by or on behalf of it, is subject to the following conditions – (a)  such offshore derivative instruments are transferred to persons subject to the fulfilment of sub-regulation (1); and (b) prior consent of the foreign portfolio investor is obtained for such transfer, except in cases,  where  the  persons  to  whom  the  offshore  derivative  instruments  are  to  be transferred, are pre-approved by the foreign portfolio investor.
(3) A foreign portfolio investor shall fully disclose to the Board any information concerning the terms of and parties to off-shore derivative instruments, by whatever names they are called, entered into by it relating to any securities listed or proposed to be listed in any stock exchange in India, as and when and in such form as the Board may specify.
(4) A foreign  portfolio  investor shall collect  the regulatory fee, as specified in Part C of the Second Schedule, from every subscriber of the offshore derivative instrument issued by it and deposit the same with the Board. CHAPTER V GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FOREIGN PORTFOLIO INVESTORS General obligations and responsibilities of foreign portfolio investors.
22. (1) The foreign portfolio investor shall – (a)  comply  with  the  provisions  of  these  regulations,  as  far  as  they  may  apply,  circulars issued thereunder and any other terms and conditions specified by the Board from time to time; (b) forthwith  inform  the  Board  and  designated  depository  participant  in  writing,  if  any information or particulars previously submitted to the Board or designated depository participant are found to be false or misleading, in any material respect; (c)  forthwith inform the Board and designated depository participant in writing, if there is any material change in  the information  including any direct  or indirect  change in  its structure  or  ownership  or  control,  previously  furnished  by  him  to  the  Board  or designated depository participant; (d) as and when required by the Board or any other Government agency in India, submit any information, record or documents in relation to its activities as a foreign portfolio investor; (e)  forthwith  inform  the Board and the designated depository participant, in case of any penalty, pending litigation or proceedings, findings of inspections or investigations for which action may have been taken or is in the process of being taken by an overseas regulator against it; (f)  obtain a Permanent Account Number from the Income Tax Department; (g) in relation to its activities as foreign portfolio investor, at all times, subject itself to the extant Indian laws, rules, regulations, guidelines and circulars issued from time to time; (h) be a fit and proper person based on the criteria specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; (i)  undertake  necessary  KYC  on  its  shareholders/investors  in  accordance  with  the  rules applicable to it in the jurisdiction where it is organised; (j)   provide  any  additional  information  or  documents  including  beneficiary  ownership details of their clients as may be required by the designated depository participant or the Board or any other enforcement agency to ensure compliance with the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 and the rules and regulations specified thereunder, the Financial Action Task Force standards and circulars issued from  time to time by the Board; and (k) ensure that securities held by foreign portfolio investors are free from all encumbrances. requirements shall not be considered under this clause.
(2)  In  case  of  jointly  held  depository  accounts,  each  of  the  joint  holders  shall  meet  the requirements specified for foreign portfolio investor and each shall be deemed to be holding a depository account as a foreign portfolio investor.
(3) Multiple entities registered as foreign portfolio investors and directly or indirectly, having common ownership of more than fifty per cent or common control, shall be treated as part of the same investor group and the investment limits of all such entities shall be clubbed at the investment limit as applicable to a single foreign portfolio investor: Provided that in case the limit is breached due to transaction(s) by foreign portfolio investors under these regulations, the excess holding shall be divested within five trading days from the date of settlement of the trades causing the breach. Provided further that in case the foreign portfolio investor fails to divest the excess holding, the entire investment in the company by such foreign portfolio investors including its investor group  shall  be  considered  as  investment  under  the  Foreign  Direct  Investment  as  per  the procedure specified by the Board and the foreign portfolio investor and its investor group shall not make further portfolio investment in that company under these regulations.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (3), the clubbing of investment limit of foreign portfolio investors having common control shall not be applicable where – (a)  foreign portfolio investors are appropriately regulated public retail funds; or (b) the foreign portfolio investors are public retail funds where the majority is owned by appropriately regulated public retail fund on look through basis; or (c)  foreign  portfolio  investors  are  public  retail  funds  and  investment  managers  of  such foreign portfolio investors are appropriately regulated. (i)  mutual funds or unit trusts which are open for subscription to retail investors and  which  do  not  have  specific  investor  type  requirements  like  accredited investors; (ii) insurance  companies  where  segregated  portfolio  with  one  to  one  correlation with a single investor is not maintained; and (iii)pension funds.
(5) In case of any direct or indirect change in structure or common ownership or control of the foreign  portfolio  investor,  it  shall  forthwith  bring  the  same  to  the  notice  of  its  designated depository participant. Code of conduct.
23. A foreign portfolio investor shall, at all times, abide by the code of conduct as specified in the Third Schedule of these regulations. Engagement of designated depository participant
24. An applicant seeking registration as a foreign portfolio investor shall engage a designated depository participant to avail its services for obtaining a certificate of registration as foreign portfolio investor and at all times the designated depository participant and the custodian of the foreign portfolio investor shall be the same entity. Appointment of custodian.
25. (1) A foreign portfolio investor or a global custodian who is acting on behalf of the foreign portfolio  investor,  shall  enter  into  an  agreement  with  the  designated  depository  participant engaged by it to act as a custodian, before making any investment under these regulations.
(2) In addition to the obligation of custodian under any other regulations, the custodian shall – (a)  report to the depositories and the Board on a daily basis the transactions entered into by the  foreign  portfolio  investor  in  the  form  and  manner  specified  by  the  Board  or depositories from time to time; (b) monitor investment of the foreign portfolio investors; (c)  maintain the relevant true and fair records, books of accounts, and documents including the records relating to transactions of foreign portfolio investors; (d) report the holdings of foreign portfolio investors who form part of investor group to the depositories  and  the  depositories  shall  club  the  investment  limits  to  ensure  that combined holdings of all these foreign portfolio investors remains below ten per cent of the total paid-up equity capital on a fully diluted basis of a investee company at any time. Appointment of designated bank.
26.  A  foreign  portfolio investor  shall  appoint  a  branch  of  a  bank  authorised  by  the  Reserve Bank of India for opening  a foreign  currency denominated account  and special non-resident rupee account before making any investments in India. Appointment of compliance officer.
27.  (1)  Every  foreign  portfolio  investor  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be responsible  for  monitoring  the  compliance  of  the  Act,  rules  and  regulations,  notifications, guidelines and instructions issued by the designated depository participant or the Board or the Central Government: Provided that in case of a foreign portfolio investor who is an individual, such individual shall be responsible for monitoring the compliance of the Act, rules and regulations, notifications, guidelines and instructions issued by the designated depository participant or the Board or the Central Government.
(2) The compliance officer shall immediately  and independently report  any non-compliance observed by him to the Board and the designated depository participant. Investment advice in publicly accessible media.
28.  (1)  A  foreign  portfolio  investor,  or  any  of  its  employees  shall  not  render  directly  or indirectly any investment advice about any security in the publicly accessible media, whether real-time or otherwise, unless a disclosure of its interest including long or short position in the said security has been made, while rendering such advice.
(2) In case, an employee of the foreign portfolio investor is rendering such advice, he shall also disclose the interest of his dependent family members and his employer including their long or short position in the said security, while rendering such advice. Maintenance of proper books of accounts, records and documents.
29. Every foreign  portfolio investor shall maintain  the following  books of accounts, records and documents, namely – (a)  true and fair accounts relating to remittances of funds to India for buying and selling; and realising capital gains or losses on investment made from such remittances; (b) bank statement of accounts; (c)  contract notes relating to purchase and sale of securities; and (d) communication  including  in  electronic  mode  from  and  to  the  designated  depository participants,  stock  brokers  and  depository  participants  regarding  investments  in securities. Preservation of books of accounts, records and documents.
30.  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  any  other  law,  for  the  time  being  in  force,  every  foreign portfolio  investor  shall  preserve  the  books  of  accounts,  records  and  documents  specified  in regulation 29 for a minimum period of five years from the date of approval of the surrender or cancellation of registration by the Board. CHAPTER VI GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DESIGNATED DEPOSITORY PARTICIPANTS Obligations and responsibilities of designated depository participants.
31. (1) All designated depository participants who have been granted approval by the Board shall - (a)  comply  with  the  provisions  of  these  regulations,  as  far  as  they  may  apply,  circulars issued thereunder and any other terms and conditions specified by the Board from time to time; (b) forthwith  inform  the  Board  in  writing,  if  any  information  or  particulars  previously submitted to the Board are found to be false or misleading, in any material respect; (c)  forthwith inform the Board in writing, if there is any material change in the information previously furnished by him to the Board; (d) furnish such information, record or documents to the Board and Reserve Bank of India, as may be required, in relation to its activities as a designated depository participant; (e)  ensure that only registered foreign portfolio investors are allowed to invest in securities market; (f)  have adequate systems to ensure that in case of jointly held depository accounts, each of the joint holders meet the requirements specified for foreign portfolio investors and shall perform KYC due diligence for each of the joint holders; (g) in  case  of  any  penalty,  pending  litigation  or  proceedings,  findings  of  inspections  or investigations for which action may have been taken or is in the process of being taken by any regulator against a designated depository participant, the designated depository participant  shall  bring  such  information  forthwith,  to  the  attention  of  the  Board, depositories and stock exchanges; (h) be  guided  by  the  relevant  circular  on  Anti-Money  Laundering  or  Combating  the Financing of Terrorism specified by the Board from time to time.
(2)  The  designated  depository  participant  engaged  by  an  applicant  seeking  registration  as foreign portfolio investor shall – (a)  ascertain  at  the  time  of  granting  registration  and  whenever  applicable,  whether  the applicant forms part of any investor group; (b) open a dematerialized account for the applicant only after ensuring compliance with all the  requirements  under  Prevention  of  Money  Laundering  Act,  2002  and  rules  and regulations specified thereunder, Financial Action Task Force standards and circulars issued by the Board in this regard, from time to time and shall also ensure that foreign portfolio investors comply with all these requirements on an ongoing basis; (c)  carry  out  necessary  due  diligence  to  ensure  that  no  other  depository  account  per depository  is  held  by  any  of  the  concerned  applicant  as  a  foreign  portfolio  investor, before opening a depository account Provided  that  a  foreign  portfolio  investor  can  open  separate  depository  accounts  for holding  securities  under  the  Voluntary  Retention  Route  or  any  other  scheme  as specified by the Reserve Bank of India or the Board; (d) collect  and  remit  fees  to  the  Board,  in  the  manner  as  specified  in  Part  A  of  Second Schedule; and (e)  in  case of change in structure or constitution or direct  or indirect change in common ownership or control reported by the foreign portfolio investor, re-assess the eligibility of such foreign portfolio investor.
(3) The designated depository participant shall maintain segregation of activities such that there is  no  conflict  of  interest  between  the  activity  of  grant  of  registration  to  a  foreign  portfolio investor in the capacity of a designated depository participant and its other activities.
(4) The designated  depository participant shall submit  the reports as specified by the Board from time to time.
(5)    The  designated  depository  participant  shall  carry  out  an  annual  review  of  its  systems, procedures and controls by an independent professional. meet  its obligations towards its clients, regulators and other relevant bodies and compliance with the requirements of the regulations and circulars issued by the Board.
(6) The designated depository participant shall furnish to the Board annual audit reports on its internal control for a particular calendar year within ninety days of the next calendar year.
(7) The designated depository participant shall submit the Action Taken Report, if any, on the audit report on a quarterly basis to the Board. Maintenance of proper books of accounts, records and documents.
32. (1) Every designated depository participant shall maintain the relevant true and fair records, books  of  accounts,  and  documents  including  the  physical  or  electronic  records  relating  to registration of foreign portfolio investors.
(2) The designated depository participant shall intimate to  the Board in  writing  the location where such books, records and documents shall be maintained.
(3) Subject  to  the  provisions  of  any  other  law  for  the  time  being  in  force,  every  designated depository participant shall preserve the books of accounts, physical or electronic records and documents specified in this regulation at all times. Appointment of compliance officer.
33. (1) Every designated depository participant shall appoint a compliance officer who shall be responsible  for  monitoring  the  compliance  of  the  Act,  rules  and  regulations,  notifications, guidelines and instructions issued by the Board or the Central Government.
(2) The compliance officer shall immediately  and independently report  any non-compliance observed by him to the Board. Information to the Board or the Reserve Bank of India.
34. Every designated depository participant  shall, as and when required by the Board or the Reserve Bank of India, submit to the Board or the Reserve Bank of India, as the case may be, any  information,  such  records  or  documents  in  relation  to  its  activities  of  foreign  portfolio investor. Investment advice in publicly accessible media.
35. (1) A designated depository participant, or any of its employees shall not render directly or indirectly any investment advice about any security in the publicly accessible media, whether real-time or otherwise, unless a disclosure of its interest including long or short position in the said security has been made, while rendering such advice.
(2) In case, an employee of the designated depository participant is rendering such advice, he shall also disclose the interest of his dependent family  members and his employer including their long or short position in the said security, while rendering such advice. CHAPTER VII INSPECTION Board's right to inspect.
36. The Board may suo moto or upon receipt of any information or complaint, appoint one or more persons as inspecting authority to undertake inspection of the books of account, records and  documents  relating  to  a  designated  depository  participant  for  any  of  the  following purposes, namely, - (a)  to ensure that the books of account, records including telephone records and electronic records and documents are being maintained by the designated depository participants; (b) to  ascertain  whether  any  circumstances  exist  that  would  render  the  designated depository participants unfit or ineligible; (c)  to inquire into the complaints received from investors, clients, other market participants or any other person on any matter having a bearing on the activities of the designated depository participants; (d) to ascertain whether the provisions of the securities laws and the directions or circulars issued thereunder are being complied with by the designated depository participants; (e)  to  ascertain  whether  the  systems,  procedures  and  safeguards  which  have  been established  and  are  being  followed  by  the  designated  depository  participants  are adequate; and (f)  to investigate suo moto into the affairs of the designated depository participants in the interest of the securities market or in the interest of investors. Notice before inspection.
37. (1) Before undertaking an inspection under regulation 36, the Board shall give not less than ten days’ notice to the designated depository participants: Provided that where the Board is satisfied that, in the interest of the investors, no such notice should be given, it may, by an order in writing direct that such inspection be taken up without such notice.
(2) During the course of an inspection, the designated depository participants against  whom the  inspection  is  being  carried  out  shall  be  bound  to  discharge  its  obligation  as  provided  in regulation 38. Obligations  of  designated  depository participants  in  connection  with inspection  by  the Board.
38. (1) It shall be the duty  of the designated depository participants whose affairs are being inspected,  and  of  every  director,  officer  and  employee  thereof  to  produce  to  the  inspecting officer such books, securities, accounts, records and other documents in its custody or control and furnish him with such statements and information relating to its activities, as the inspecting officer may require, within such reasonable period as the inspecting officer may specify.
(2) The designated depository participants shall allow the inspecting officer to have reasonable access  to  the  premises  occupied  by  such  designated  depository  participant  or  by  any  other person  on  its  behalf  and  also  extend  reasonable  facility  for  examining  any  books,  records, documents and computer data in  the possession  of the designated depository participants or such other person and also provide copies of documents or other materials which in the opinion of the inspecting officer are relevant for the purposes of the inspection.
(3) The inspecting officer, in the course of inspection, shall be entitled to examine or to record the statements of any director, officer or employee of the designated depository participants.
(4)  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  director,  officer  or  employee  of  the  designated  depository participants to give to the inspecting officer all assistance in connection with the inspection, which the inspecting officer may reasonably require. Submission of report to the Board.
39.  The  inspecting  officer  shall,  as  soon  as  possible,  on  completion  of  the  inspection  or investigation as the case may be, submit a report to the Board: Provided  that  if  directed  to  do  so  by  the  Board,  the  inspecting  officer  may  submit  interim report(s). Action on inspection report.
40. The Board shall after consideration of the inspection report, take such action as it may deem fit  including  action  under  Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008. Appointment of an auditor.
41. The Board shall have the power to appoint an auditor to inspect or investigate, as the case may be, into the books of account, records, documents, infrastructures, systems and procedures or affairs of the applicant or the designated depository participants, as the case may be: Provided that the auditors so appointed shall have the same powers as vested in the inspecting officer  under  regulation  36  and  the  applicant  or  designated  depository  participants  and  its directors, officers and employees shall be under the same obligations, towards the auditor so appointed, as are mentioned in regulation 38. Board to recover the expenses.
42.  The  Board  shall  be  entitled  to  recover  from  the  designated  depository  participants  or applicant, as the case may be, such expenses including the fees paid to the auditors as may be incurred  by  it  for  the  purposes  of  inspecting  or  investigating  the  books  of  account,  records, documents,  infrastructures,  systems  and  procedures  or  affairs  of  the  designated  depository participants or applicant, as the case may be. CHAPTER VIII PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT Liability for action in case of default.
43.  A  foreign  portfolio  investor,  designated  depository  participant,  depository  or  any  other person  who  contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of these  regulations  shall  be  liable  for  action under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008 or the relevant  provisions  of  the  Act  or  the  Depositories  Act,  1996  and  the  regulations  made thereunder. 5[CHAPTER VIII-A POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
43A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)  Any  exemption  granted  by  the  Board  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  subject  to  the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. testing  environment  where  new  products,  processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  may  be deployed on a limited set  of eligible customers for a specified period of time,  for furthering innovation  in  the  securities  market,  subject  to  such  conditions  as  may  be  specified  by  the Board.] CHAPTER IX MISCELLANEOUS Power of the Board to issue clarifications.
44. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of circulars or issue  separate  circular  or  guidelines  or  framework  for  each  category  of  foreign  portfolio investors or designated depository participant. Repeal, rescission and saving.
45. (1) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014 shall stand repealed.
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal– (a)  anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken, including registration or approval granted, fees collected, registration or approval, suspended or cancelled, any adjudication, enquiry or investigation commenced or show-cause notice issued under the repealed regulations, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of these regulations; (b) a foreign portfolio investor registered under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign  Portfolio  Investor)  Regulations,  2014  shall  be  re-categorised  by  their respective designated depository participant; (c)  any offshore derivative instrument issued under the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Foreign  Portfolio  Investors)  Regulations,  2014  before  the  commencement  of these  regulations  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  issued  under  the  corresponding provisions of these regulations; (d) any application made to the Board under the repealed regulations, prior to such repeal, and  pending  before  it  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  made  under  the  corresponding provisions of these regulations; and (e)  the  previous  operation  of  the  repealed  regulations  or  anything  duly  done  or suffered  thereunder,  any  right,  privilege,  obligation  or  liability  acquired,  accrued  or incurred under the repealed regulations, any penalty, incurred in respect of any violation committed against the repealed regulations, or any  investigation,  legal  proceeding  or remedy  in  respect   of  any  such  right, privilege,  obligation,  liability,  penalty as aforesaid,  shall  remain  unaffected  as  if  the  repealed  regulations  has  never  been repealed;
4.  A company whose equity shares are listed on a recognized stock exchange may issue sweat equity shares in accordance with Section 79A of Companies Act, 1956 and these Regulations to its  – (a)  Employees (b)  Directors Special Resolution.
5.  (1) For the purposes of passing a special resolution under clause (a) of sub section (1) of  Section  79A  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  the  explanatory  statement  to  be annexed  to  the  notice  for  the  general  meeting  pursuant  to  section  173  o  f  the Companies Act, 1956 shall contain disclosures as specified in the Schedule.
(2) The issue of sweat equity shares to promoters shall be subject to the requirements specified in Regulation 6 of these Regulations. Issue of Sweat Equity Shares to Promoters.
6. (1)  In  case  of  Issue  of  sweat  equity  shares  to  promoters,  the  same  shall  also  be approved by simple majority of the shareholders in General Meeting; Provided  that for passing such  resolution,  voting through postal  ballot  as specified under Companies (Passing of the resolution by Postal Ballot) Rules, 2001 shall also be adopted; Provided further that the promoters to whom such Sweat Equity Shares are proposed to be issued shall not participate in such  resolution.
(2) Each transaction of issue of Sweat Equity shall be voted by a separate resolution.
(3)  The resolution for issue of Sweat Equity shall be valid for a period of not more than twelve months from the date of passing of the resolution.
(3) For the purposes of passing the resolution, the explanatory statement shall contain the disclosures as specified in the Schedule. Pricing of Sweat Equity Shares.
7.  (1) The price of sweat equity shares shall not be less than the higher of the following: (a)  the average of the weekly high and low of the closing prices of the related equity shares during last six months preceding the relevant date;  or (b) the average of the weekly high and low of the closing prices of the related equity shares during the two weeks preceding the relevant  date. the date on which the meeting of the General  Body of the shareholders is convened, in terms of clause (a) of sub section (1) of section 79A of the Companies Act.
(2) If the shares are listed on more than one stock exchange, but quoted only on one stock exchange on given date, then the price on the stock exchange shall be considered.
(3) If the share price is quoted on more than one stock exchange, then the stock exchange where there is highest trading volume during that date shall be considered.
(4) If the shares are not quoted on the given date, then the share price on the next trading day shall be considered. Valuation of intellectual Property.
8. (1) The valuation  of the intellectual property  rights  or  of  the know how provided  or Companies Act, 1956 shall be carried out by a merchant  banker.
(2)  The merchant banker may consult such experts and valuers, as he may deem fit having regard to the nature of the industry and the nature of the property or other value addition.
(3) The  merchant  banker  shall  obtain  a  certificate  from  an  independent  Chartered Accountant  that  the  valuation  of  the  intellectual  property  or  other  value  addition  is  in accordance with the relevant accounting standards. Accounting Treatment.
9. (1) Where the sweat equity shares are issued for a  non-cash  consideration, such non cash consideration shall be treated in the following manner in the books of account of the company:- (a)  where  the  non  cash  consideration  takes  the  form  of  a  depreciable  or amortizable asset, it shall be carried to the balance sheet of the company in accordance with the relevant accounting standards; or (b)  where clause (a) is not applicable, it shall be expensed as provided in the relevant accounting standards. Placing of Auditors Before Annual General Meeting.
10. In the General meeting subsequent to the issue of sweat equity, the Board of Directors shall place before the shareholders, a certificate from the auditors of the company that the issue of sweat equity shares has been made in accordance with the Regulations and in accordance with the resolution passed by the company authorizing the issue of such Sweat Equity  Shares. Ceiling on Managerial Remuneration.
11.  The  amount  of  Sweat  Equity  shares  issued  shall  be  treated  as  part  of  managerial remuneration for the purpose of sections 198, 309, 310, 311 and 387 of the Companies Act, 1956, if the following conditions are  fulfilled: (i) (ii) the Sweat Equity shares are issued to any director or manager; and they are issued for non cash consideration, which does not take the form of an asset which can be carried to the balance sheet of the company in accordance with the relevant accounting standards. Lock-in of sweat equity shares.
12. (1) The Sweat Equity shares shall be locked in for a period of three years from the date of allotment.
(2) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Disclosures and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000 on public issue in terms of lock-in and computation of promoters’ contribution shall apply if a company makes a public issue after it has issued after it has issued sweat  equity. Listing.
13.  The Sweat Equity issued by a listed company shall be eligible for listing only if such issues are in accordance with these regulations. Applicability of Takeover.
14.  Any acquisition of Sweat Equity Shares shall be subject to the provision of Securities and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) Regulations, 1997. CHAPTER III GENERAL OBLIGATIONS Obligations of the Company
15.  (1) The company shall ensure that  - (a)  The  explanatory  statement  to  the  notice  for  general  meeting  shall  contain disclosures as are specified under clause (b) of sub section (1) of Section 79A and sub regulation (1) of Regulation 5. (b)  The Auditor’s certificate as required under Regulation 10 shall be placed in the general meeting of shareholders. (c)  The company shall within seven days of the issue of sweat equity, issue or send statement to the exchange, disclosing: (i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v) number of sweat equity shares; price at which the sweat equity shares are issued; total amount invested in sweat equity  shares; details of the persons to whom sweat equity shares are issued; and the consequent changes in the capital structure and the shareholding pattern after and before the issues of sweat equity. Action against intermediaries.
16.  The Board may, on failure of the merchant banker to comply with the obligations under these  regulations  or  failing  to  observe  due  diligence  in  respect  of  valuation  of intellectual property or value addition, initiate action against merchant banker in  terms of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992. CHAPTER IV PENALTIES AND PROCEDURE Power of the Board to order inspection or investigation.
17.  (1) The Board may, suo-motu or upon information received by it, cause an inspection to be made of the books of account or other books and papers of any company or an investigation to be made in respect of the conduct and affairs of any person associated with the process of sweat equity, by appointing an officer of the Board 1[not below the rank of Assistant General Manager for the purpose of conducting inspection and not below the rank of Division Chief for the purpose of conducting an investigation]: Provided that no such inspection or investigation shall be made except for the purpose specified in sub-regulation (2). 2)  The purpose referred to in sub-regulation (1) are the following, namely:- (a) to ascertain whether there are any circumstances which would render any person guilty  of  having  contravened  any  of  these  regulations  or  any directions  issued thereunder; (b) to investigate into any complaint of any contravention of the regulation, received from any investor, or any other  person; 3) An  order  passed  under  the  sub  regulation  (1)  shall  be  sufficient  authority  for Inspecting or Investigating Officer to undertake the inspection or investigation as the case  may  be  and  on  production  of  an  authenticated  copy  of  the  order,  the  person concerned shall be bound to carry out the duty imposed in Regulation 18. Duty to produce records etc.
18. (1)  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  person  in  respect  of  whom  an  inspection  or investigation  has  been  ordered  under  Regulation  17,  to  produce  before  the inspecting or the investigating officer such book, accounts and other documents in his custody or control and furnish him with such statements and information as the said officer may require from the purposes of the inspection or investigation.
(2)  Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of sub-regulation (1) such person shall - (a)  extend  to  the  Inspecting  or  Investigating  Officer  reasonable  facilities  for examining any books, accounts and other documents in his custody or control (whether  kept  manually  or  in  computer  or  in  any  other  form)  reasonably required for the purposes of the inspection or investigation; (b) to  provide  such  inspecting  or  investigating  officer  copies  of  such  books, accounts  and  records  which,  in  opinion  of  the  Officer,  are  relevant  to  the inspection  or  investigation  or,  as  the  case  may  be,  allow  him  to  take  out computer printouts thereof. (c) to provide such assistance and co-operation as may be required in connection with  the  inspection  or  investigation  and  to  furnish  information  relevant  to such inspection or investigation as may be sought by such officer.
(3)  The  Inspecting  or  Investigating  Officer  shall  for  the  purpose  of  inspection  or investigation, have the full powers; Submission of Report to the Board.
19. (1) The Inspecting or Investigating Officer shall, on completion of the inspection or Investigation after taking into account all relevant facts and circumstances, submit a report to the Board.
(2) On the receipt of report under sub-regulation (1), the Board may initiate such action as it may be deemed fit to do in the interests of investors and the securities market. Power of the Board to Issue directions.
20.  The Board may in the interests of the securities market and without prejudice to its rights  to  initiate  action, including  criminal  prosecution  under  Section  24  of  the  Act  or Section 621 of Companies Act give such directions as it deems fit including:- (a)  directing the person concerned not to  further deal in securities in any  particular manner; (b)  directing the person concerned to sell or divest the sweat equity shares acquired in violation of the provisions of these Regul ations or any other law or regulations; (c)  prohibiting the persons concerned, from accessing the securities market; (d)  directing the disgorgement of any ill-gotten gains or profits or avoidance of loss; (e) restraining the company from making a further offer for sweat equity. POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 1[CHAPTER V Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
21. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation in technological aspects relating to testing new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
3.  No  person  other  than  a  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  which  has  obtained  a certificate  under  these  regulations  shall  carry  on  or  sponsor  or  launch  a  collective  investment scheme. Application for grant of certificate.
4. Any person proposing to carry any activity as a Collective Investment Management Company on or after the commencement of these regulations shall make an application to the Board for the grant of registration in Form A. 14 [Application by a scheme or arrangement deemed to be a collective investment scheme
4A.  (1)  Any  person  proposing  to  carry  on  or  sponsor  or  launch  any  scheme  or  arrangement  which would be deemed to be a collective investment scheme under the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 11AA  of  the  Act,  shall  make  an  application  for  grant  of  registration  as  a  Collective  Investment Management Company in Form A: Provided that any scheme or arrangement which is otherwise regulated or prohibited under any other law shall not be deemed to be a collective investment scheme.
(2) All other provisions of these regulations and the guidelines and circulars issued thereunder, shall apply to any scheme or arrangement deemed to be a collective investment scheme under the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 11AA of the Act.] Application by existing Collective Investment Schemes.
5.  (1)  Any  person  who  immediately  prior  to  the  commencement  of  these  regulations  was operating  a 15[collective  investment  scheme],  shall  subject  to  the  provisions  of  Chapter  IX  of these regulations make an application to the Board for the grant of a certificate within a period of two months from such date.
(2)  An  application  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  contain  such  particulars  as  are  specified  in Form A and shall be treated as an application made in pursuance of regulation 4 and dealt with accordingly. Application fee to accompany the application
6.  Every  application  for  registration  under  regulation  4  shall  be  accompanied  by  a  non- refundable application fee as specified in the Second Schedule. Application to conform to the requirements
7. An application, which is not complete in all respects or does not conform to the requirements of regulation 6 or regulation 9 shall be rejected by the Board Provided that before rejecting any such  application,  the  applicant  may  be  given  an opportunity  to  remove  within  one  month  such objections as may  be indicated by the Board Provided further that the Board may on sufficient reasons being shown extend the time in order to enable the applicant to remove such objections. Furnishing information
8. (1) The Board may direct the applicant to  furnish such further information or clarification as may be required by it, for the purpose of processing the application.
(2) The  Board,  if  it  so  desires,  may  ask the  applicant  or  its  authorized  representative to  appear before the Board for personal representation in connection with the grant of a certificate. Conditions for eligibility
9.  The Board shall not consider an application for the grant of a certificate unless the applicant satisfies the following conditions, namely:— a)  the  applicant  is  set  up  and  registered  as  a  company  under  the  Companies  Act, 1956; b)  the  applicant  has,  in  its  Memorandum  of  Association  specified  the  managing  of collective investment scheme as one of its main objects; c)  the applicant has a net worth of not less than rupees five crores: Provided that at the time of making the application the applicant shall have a minimum net worth of rupees three crores which shall be increased to rupees five crores within three years from the date of grant of registration; d)  the applicant is a fit and proper person for the grant of such certificate; e)  the  applicant  has  adequate  infrastructure  to  enable  it  to  operate  collective f) investment scheme in accordance with the provision of these regulations; the directors or key personnel of the applicant shall consist of persons of honesty and  integrity  having  adequate  professional  experience  in  related  field  and  have not been convicted for an offence involving moral turpitude or for any economic offence or for the violation of any securities laws; g)  at least fifty per cent of the directors of such Collective Investment Management Company  shall  consist  of  persons  who  are  independent  and  are  not  directly  or indirectly  associated  with  the  persons  who  have  control  over  the  Collective Investment Management Company; h)  no person, directly or indirectly connected with the applicant has in the past been refused registration by the Board under the Act. previous  application  for  a  certificate  of  any  person,  directly  or  indirectly,  connected  with  the applicant has been rejected by the Board or any disciplinary action has been taken against such person under the Act or any of the rules or any of the regulations made under the Act. (i)  at  least  one  of  the  directors,  on  the  Board  of  the  Collective  Investment  Management Company, who is not subject to retirement, is a representative of the trustee; (j) the Collective Investment Management Company is not a trustee of any collective investment scheme; (k)  in  case  the  applicant  is  an  existing  collective  investment  scheme,  it  complies  with  the provisions of Chapter IX of these regulations. 16[Criteria for fit and proper person
9A.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the  collective  investment management  company  is  a  fit  and  proper  person,  the  Board  may  take  into  account  the  criteria specified  in  Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.] Grant of Certificate
10.  (1)  The  Board  may,  on  receipt  of  an  application  and  on  being  satisfied  that  the  applicant complies  with  the  requirements  specified  in  regulation  9,  call  upon  the  applicant  to  pay registration fee as specified in the Second Schedule.
(2) On receipt of registration fee, the Board shall grant a certificate in Form B, on such terms and conditions as are in the interest of investors and as may be specified by the Board. Terms and conditions to be complied with
11.  The  certificate  granted  under  regulation  10  shall  be  subject  to  the  following  conditions, namely:— (a) any  director  of  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  not  be  a director  in  any  other  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  unless  such person  is  an  independent  director  referred  to  in  clause  (g)  of  regulation  9  and approval of the board of Collective Investment Management Companies of which such person is an independent director, has been obtained; the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  forthwith  inform  the Board  of  any  material  change  in  the  information  or  particulars  previously furnished, which have a bearing on the certificate granted by it; appointment of a director of a Collective Investment Management Company shall be made with the prior approval of the trustee; (b) (c) (d) (e) (f) the Collective Investment Management Company shall comply with provisions of the Act and these regulations; no  change  in  the  controlling  interest  of  the  Collective  Investment  Management Company shall be made without obtaining prior approval of the Board, the trustee and  the  unit  holders  holding  at  least  one-half  of  the  nominal  value  of  the  unit capital of the 17[collective investment scheme]; the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  take  adequate  steps  to redress the grievances of the investors within one month from the date of receipt of the complaint from the aggrieved investor; (h) 18[(g)    the Collective Investment  Management Company shall enter into an agreement with  a  depository  for  dematerialization  of  the  units  of  collective  investment scheme proposed to be issued; all monies payable towards subscription of units of collective investment scheme shall  be  paid  through  cheque  or  demand  draft  or  through  any  other  banking channel, but not by cash; the Collective Investment Management Company shall comply with KYC (know your client) norms as specified by the Board.] (i) Procedure where registration is not granted
12.  (1)  Where  an  application  made  under regulation  4 for  grant  of  registration  does  not  satisfy the  conditions  specified  in  regulation  9,  the  Board  may  reject  the  application  after  giving  the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard and inform the applicant of the same.
(2)  The  decision  shall  be  communicated  to  the  applicant  by  the  Board  within  30  days  of  such decision stating therein the grounds on which the application has been rejected. BUSINESS ACTIVITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY CHAPTER III Restrictions on business activities
13. The Collective Investment Management Company shall not : a)  undertake  any  activity  other  than  that  of  managing  the 19[collective  investment scheme]; b)  act as a trustee of any 20[collective investment scheme]; c)  launch  any  21 [collective  investment  scheme]  for  the  purpose  of  investing  in securities; d)  invest in any 22[collective investment scheme] floated by it. Provided that a Collective Investment Management Company may invest in its own 23[collective investment scheme], (i)  if  it  makes  a  disclosure  of  its  intention  to  invest  in  the  offer  document  of  the 24[collective investment scheme], and (ii) does not charge any fees on its investment in that 25[collective investment scheme]. Obligations of Collective Investment Management Company
14. Every Collective Investment Management Company shall: (a)  be responsible  for  managing  the  funds  or  properties  of  the 26[collective  investment  scheme] on behalf of the unit holders; (b) take all reasonable steps and exercise due diligence to ensure that the 27[collective investment scheme] is managed in accordance with the provisions of these regulations, offer document and the trust deed; (c) exercise due diligence and care in managing assets and funds of the 28[collective investment scheme]; (d)  be  responsible  for  the  acts  of  commissions  and  omissions  by  its  employees  or  the  persons whose services have been availed by it; (e)  remain  liable  to  the  unit  holders  for  its  acts  of  commission  or  omissions,  notwithstanding anything contained in any contract or agreement; (f) be incompetent to  enter into any transaction with or through its associates, or their relatives relating to the 29[collective investment scheme]: Provided  that  in  case  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  enters  into  any transactions relating to the 30[collective investment scheme] with any of its associates, a report to that effect shall immediately be sent to the trustee and to the Board. (g) appoint registrar and share transfer agents; (h) abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in the Third Schedule; (i)  give  receipts  for  all  monies  received  by  it  and  give  a  report  to  the  Board  every  month, particularly of receipts and payments; (j)  hold  a  meeting  of  the  Board  of  Directors  to  consider  the  affairs  of 31[collective  investment scheme] at least twice in every three months; (k)  ensure  that  its  officers  or  employees  do  not  make  improper  use  of  their  position  or information to gain, directly or indirectly, an advantage for themselves or for any other person or to cause detriment to the 32[collective investment scheme]; (l) obtain adequate insurance against the property of the 33[collective investment scheme]; (m) comply with  such guidelines, directives, circulars and instructions as may be issued by the Board from time to time, on the subject of collective investment schemes. Submission of information and documents
15. (1) The Collective Investment Management Company shall prepare quarterly reports (i.e., as at the end of March, June, September and December) on its activities and the position regarding compliance with these regulations and submit the same to the trustees within one month of the expiry of each quarter.
(2) The Collective Investment Management Company shall file with the trustee and the Board— (a) particulars of all its directors along with their interest in other companies within fifteen days of their appointment; and (b) any change in the interests of directors, within fifteen days of such change.
(3) The Collective Investment Management Company shall furnish a copy of the Balance Sheet, Profit  and  Loss  Account  and  a  copy  of  the  summary  of  the  yearly  appraisal  report  to  the  unit holders within two months from the closure of financial year.
(4) The Collective Investment Management Company shall furnish to the Board and the trustee such  information  and  documents  to  the  Board  and  the  trustee  as  may  be  required  by  them concerning the affairs of the 34[collective investment scheme]. CHAPTER IV TRUSTEES AND THEIR OBLIGATIONS Trust Deed to be registered under the Registration Act
16.  (1)  A 35[collective  investment  scheme]  shall  be  constituted  in  the  form  of  a  trust  and  the instrument  of  trust  shall  be  in  the  form  of  a  deed  duly  registered  under  the  provisions  of  the Indian Registration Act, 1908 (16 of 1908) executed by the Collective Investment Management Company in favour of the trustees named in such an instrument. Appointment of trustees 32 ibid. 33 ibid. 34 ibid. 35 ibid.
(2)  A  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  appoint  a  trustee  who  shall  hold  the assets of the 36[collective investment scheme] for the benefit of unit holders. Contents of trust deed
17. (1) The trust deed shall contain such clauses as are specified in the Fourth Schedule and such other clauses as are necessary for safeguarding the interests of the unit holders.
(2) No trust deed shall contain a clause which has the effect of— (i)  limiting  or  extinguishing  the  obligations  and  liabilities  of  the  Collective  Investment Management Company in relation to any 37[collective investment scheme] or the unit holders; or (ii)  indemnifying  the  trustee  or  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  for  loss  or damage  caused  to  the  unit  holders  by  their  acts  of  negligence  or  acts  of  commissions  or omissions. Eligibility for appointment as trustee
18.  (1)  Only  persons  registered  with  the  Board  as  Debenture  Trustee  under  Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustee) Regulations, 1993 shall be eligible to be appointed as trustees of collective investment scheme. Provided that no person shall be eligible to be appointed as trustee, if he is directly or indirectly associated  with  the  persons  who  have  control  over  the  collective  investment  management company.
(2)  The  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  furnish  to  the  Board  particulars  as specified in Form C in respect of trustees appointed under sub-regulation (1). Appointment of trustee not found guilty
19. No person shall be appointed as trustee of a 38[collective investment scheme] if— (a) he has been found guilty of an offence under the securities laws, or (b)  the  Board  or  any  authority  to  which  the  Board  has  delegated  its  power  has  passed  against such  person,  an  order  under  the  Act  for  violation  of  any  provision  of  the  Act  or  of  regulations made hereunder. Agreement with collective investment management company
20.  (1)  The  trustee  and  the  Collective  Investment  Management  company  shall  enter  into  an agreement for managing the 39[collective investment scheme] property.
(2) The agreement for managing the 40[collective investment scheme] property shall contain such clauses  as  are  specified  in  the  Fifth  Schedule  and  such  other  clauses  as  are  necessary  for  the purpose of fulfilling the objectives of the 41[collective investment scheme]. Rights and obligations of the trustee
21. (1) The trustee shall have a right:— (a)  to  obtain  from  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  such  information  as  is considered necessary by the trustee. (b)  to  inspect  the  books  of  account  and  other  records  relating  to  the 42[collective  investment scheme].
(2) The trustee shall ensure that the Collective Investment Management Company has:— (a) the necessary office infrastructure; (b) appointed all key personnel including managers for the 43[collective investment scheme] and submitted their bio-data which shall contain the educational qualifications and past experience in the areas relevant for fulfilling the objectives of the 44[collective investment scheme]s; (c) appointed auditors to audit the accounts of the 45[collective investment scheme] from the list of auditors approved by the Board; (d) appointed a compliance officer to comply with the provisions of the Act and these regulations and to redress investor grievances; (e) appointed registrars to an issue and share transfer agent; (f)  prepared  a  compliance  manual  and  designed  internal  control  mechanisms  including  internal audit systems; (g) taken adequate insurance for the assets of the 46[collective investment scheme]; (h) not given any undue or unfair advantage to any associates of the company or dealt with any of the associates in any manner detrimental to the interest of the unit holders; (i)  operated  the 47[collective  investment  scheme]  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  trust deed, these regulations and the offer document of the 48[collective investment scheme](s); (j) undertaken the activity of managing 49[collective investment scheme]s only; (k)  taken  adequate  steps  to  ensure  that  the  interest  of  investors  of  one 50[collective  investment scheme] are not compromised with the object of promoting the interest of investors of any other 51[collective investment scheme]; (l)  minimum  networth  on  a  continuous  basis  and  shall  inform  the  Board  immediately  of  any shortfall; (m) been diligent in empanelling the marketing agents and in monitoring their activities.
(3)  Where  the  trustee  has  reason  to  believe  that  the  conduct  of  business  of  the 52[collective investment  scheme]  is  not  in  accordance  with  these  regulations,  trust  deed  and  the  offer document of the 53[collective investment scheme], the trustee shall forthwith take such remedial steps as are necessary and shall immediately inform the Board of the action taken.
(4) The trustee shall be accountable for, and be the custodian of, the funds and property  of the respective 54[collective investment scheme]s and shall hold the same in trust for the benefit of the unit holders in accordance with these regulations and the provisions of trust deed.
(5)  The  trustee  shall  be  responsible  for  the  calculation  of  any  income  due  to  be  paid  to  the 55[collective investment scheme] and also for any income received in the 56[collective investment scheme] to the unit holders.
(6) The trustee shall convene a meeting of the unit holders— (a) whenever required to do so by the Board in the interest of the unit holders; or (b) whenever required to do so on the requisition made by unitholders holding at least one-tenth of nominal value of the unit capital of any 57[collective investment scheme]; or (c)  when  any  change investment scheme]Provided  that  no  such  change  shall  be  carried  out  unless  the  consent  of  unit  holders holding at least three-fourths of nominal value of the unit capital of the 59[collective investment scheme] is obtained. objective and terms of a 60[collective investment scheme].
(7) The trustee shall review : (a) on a quarterly basis (i.e., by the end of March, June, September and December) every year all activities carried out by the Collective Investment Management Company; (b)  periodically  all  service  contracts  relating  to  registrars  to  an  issue  and  share  transfer  agents and satisfy itself that such contracts are fair and reasonable in the interest of the unit holders; (c)  investor  complaints  received  and  the  redressal  of  the  same  by  the  Collective  Investment Management Company.
(8) (i) The trustee shall ensure that:— (a) net worth of Collective Investment Management Company is not deployed in a manner which is detrimental to interest of unit holders; (b)  property  of  each  61 [collective  investment  scheme]  is  clearly  identifiable  as  62 [collective investment  scheme]  property  and  held  separately  from  property  of  the  Collective  Investment Management Company and property of any other 63[collective investment scheme]; the  fundamental  attributes  of  any  58 [collective in 52 ibid. 53 ibid. 54 ibid.. 55 ibid. 56 ibid.. 57 ibid. 58 ibid. 59 ibid. 60 ibid. (c)  clearances  or  no  objection  certificate  is  obtained,  in  respect  of  transactions  relating  to property  of  the 64[collective  investment  scheme]  from  such  authority  as  is  competent  to  grant such clearance or no objection certificate. (ii) The trustee shall abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in the Third Schedule.
(9)  The  trustee  shall  furnish  to  the  Board  on  a  quarterly  basis  (i.e.,  by  end  of  March,  June, September and December), every year— (a) a report on the activities of the 65[collective investment scheme]; (b)  a  certificate  stating  that  the  trustee  has  satisfied  himself  that  affairs  of  the  Collective Investment  Management  Company  and  of  the  various  66 [collective  investment  scheme]s  are conducted  in  accordance  with  these  regulations  and  investment  objective  of  each 67[collective investment scheme].
(10) The trustee shall cause:— (a) the profit and loss accounts and balance sheet  of the 68[collective investment scheme]s to be audited at the end of each financial year by an auditor empanelled with the Board. (b) each 69[collective investment scheme] to be appraised at the end of each financial year by an appraising agency. (c) 70[collective investment scheme] rated by a credit rating agency.
(11) A meeting of the trustees to discuss the affairs of the 71[collective investment scheme] shall be held at least twice in every three months in a financial year.
(12) The trustee shall report to the Board any breach of these regulations and has had, or is likely to have, a materially adverse effect on the interests of unit holders as soon as they become aware of the breach.
(13) The trustee shall ensure that— (a)  the  fees  and  expenses  of  the  72 [collective  investment  scheme]  are  within  the  limits  as specified in Part I of the Ninth Schedule; (b)  accounts  of  the  73[collective  investment  scheme]s  are  drawn  up  in  accordance  with  the accounting norms as specified in Part II of the Ninth Schedule. (c) accounts of the 74[collective investment scheme] comply with the format of the balance sheet and the profit and loss account as specified in Part III of the Ninth Schedule. Termination of trusteeship
22. (1) The trusteeship of a trustee shall come to an end— (a)  if  the  trustee  ceases  to  be  trustee  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993; or (b) if the trustee is in the course of being wound up; or (c)  if  unit  holders  holding  at  least  three-fourths  of  the  nominal  value  of  the  unit  capital  of  the 75 [collective  investment  scheme]  pass  a  resolution  for  removing  the  trustee  and  the  Board approves such resolution; or (d) if in the interest of the unit holders, the Board, for reasons to be recorded in writing decides to remove the trustee for any violation of the Act or these regulations committed by them; or Provided  that  the  trustee  shall  be  afforded  reasonable  opportunity  of  hearing  before  action  is taken under this clause; (e) if the trustee serves on the Collective Investment Management Company a notice of not less than three months expressing its intention not to continue as trustee.
(2)  On  termination  of  the  trusteeship  under  sub-regulation  (1),  another  trustee,  eligible  to  be appointed  under  regulation  18,  shall  be  appointed  by  the  Collective  Investment  Management Company.
(3) The appointment of the new trustee under sub-regulation (2), shall be completed within three months from the date the previous trusteeship came to an end.
(4) The Board may notwithstanding anything contained in regulation 18 appoint any person as a trustee if the Collective Investment  Management Company fails to appoint a trustee under sub- regulations (2) and (3).
(5) The trustee appointed under sub-regulations (3) and (4) shall stand substituted as a trustee in all the documents to which the trustee so removed was a party.
(6)  The  person  appointed  by  the  Board  shall  apply  to  the  Court  for  an  order  directing  the Collective Investment Management Company to wind up the 76[collective investment scheme].
(7) A trust deed in the form as specified under regulation 16 shall be executed by the Collective Investment  Management  Company  in  favour  of  the  trustee  so  appointed  and  from  the  date  of such  appointment,  trustees  shall  be  subject  to  all  the  rights  and  duties  as  specified  in  the regulations.
(8)  The  trustee  so  removed  shall  from  such  date  be  discharged  from  complying  with  the obligations under the trust deed but shall remain liable for any action taken by them before such removal. Termination of the Agreement with the Collective Investment Management Company
23. (1) The agreement referred to in regulation 20 entered into by the trustee with the Collective Investment Management Company may be terminated— 75 ibid. 76 ibid. (a) if the Collective Investment Management Company is in the course of being wound up as per the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956; or (b)  if  unit  holders  holding  at  least  three-fourths  of  the  nominal  value  of  the  unit  capital  of  the 77 [collective  investment  scheme]  pass  a  resolution  for  terminating  the  agreement  with  the Collective  Investment  Management  Company  and  the  prior  approval  of  the  Board  has  been obtained; or (c) if in the interest of the unit holders the Board or the trustee, after obtaining prior approval of the  Board,  and  after  giving  an  opportunity  of  being  heard  to  the  Collective  Investment Management  Company,  decide  to  terminate  the  agreement  with  the  Collective  Investment Management Company.
(2)  Upon  termination  of  agreement  under  sub-regulation  (1),  another  Collective  Investment Management Company, registered with the Board, shall be appointed by the trustee within three months from the date of suchtermination.
(3) The Collective Investment Management Company so removed shall continue to act as such at the  discretion  of  trustee  or  the  trustee  itself  may  act  as  Collective  Investment  Management Company till such time as new Collective Investment Management Company is appointed.
(4)  The  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  appointed  under  subregulation  (2)  shall stand substituted as a party in all the documents to which the Collective Investment Management Company so removed was a party.
(5) The Collective Investment Management Company so removed shall continue to be liable for all acts of omission and commissions notwithstanding such termination.
(6)  If,  none  of  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company,  registered  under  these regulations,  consent  to  be  appointed  as  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  within  a further  period  of  three  months,  then  the  trustee  may  wind  up  the  78 [collective  investment scheme].
(7)  An  agreement  for  managing 79[collective  investment  scheme]  property  shall  be  executed  in favour  of  the  new  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  subject  to  all  the  rights  and duties as specified in the regulations. CHAPTER V 80[COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEME]S OF COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY Procedure for launching of 81[collective investment scheme]s
24.  (1)  No 82[collective  investment  scheme]  shall  be  launched  by  the  Collective  Investment Management Company unless such 83[collective investment scheme] is approved by the Trustee. Rating
(2)  No  84 [collective  investment  scheme]  shall  be  launched  by  the  Collective  Investment Management Company without obtaining rating from a credit rating agency. Appraisal
(3)  No  85 [collective  investment  scheme]  shall  be  launched  by  the  Collective  Investment Management  Company  without  getting  the 86[collective  investment  scheme]  appraised  by  an appraising agency. Close ended 87[collective investment scheme] and 88[collective investment scheme] duration
(4) Collective Investment Management Company shall:— (a) launch only close ended 89[collective investment scheme]s; (b) the duration of the 90[collective investment scheme]s shall not be of less than three calendar years. Insurance
(5)  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  obtain  adequate  insurance  policy  for protection of the 91[collective investment scheme]e property. No guaranteed returns
25. No 92[collective investment scheme] shall provide guaranteed or assured returns. Provided  that  indicative  return  may  be  indicated  in  the  offer  document  only,  if  the  same  is assessed by the appraising agency and expressed in monetary terms. Disclosures in the offer document
26.  (1)  The  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  before  launching  any 93[collective investment scheme] file a copy of the offer document of the 94[collective investment scheme] as referred to in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 24 with the Board and pay filing fees as specified in the Second Schedule.
(2) The offer document shall contain such information as specified in the Sixth Schedule.
(3)  The  offer  document  shall  also  contain  true  and  fair  view  of  the  95[collective  investment scheme] and adequate disclosures to enable the investors to make informed decision.
(4)  The  Board  may  in  the  interest  of  investors  require  the  Collective  Investment  Management Company to carry out such modifications in the offer document as it deems fit.
(5)  In  case  no  modifications  are  suggested  by  the  Board  in  the  offer  document  within  21  days from  the  date  of  filing,  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  may  issue  the  offer document to public. Advertisement material
27.  (1)  Advertisements  in  respect  of  every  96 [collective  investment  scheme]  shall  be  in conformity with the Advertisement Code as specified in the Seventh Schedule.
(2) The advertisement for each 97[collective investment scheme] shall disclose in addition to the investment  objectives,  the  method  and  periodicity  of  valuation  of  98 [collective  investment scheme] property. Appraising Agency
28. The appraising agency whose appraisal report forms part of the offer document and has given a written consent for the inclusion of the appraisal report in the offer document shall be liable for any statement in the appraisal report which is misleading, incorrect or false. Misleading Statements
29.  (1) The offer document and  advertisement materials shall not  be misleading  or contain any statement or opinion which are incorrect or false.
(2)  Where  an  offer  document  or  advertisement  includes  any  statement  or  opinion  which  are incorrect or false or misleading, every person— (i) who is a director of the Collective Investment Management Company at the time of the issue of the offer document; (ii)  who  has  issued  the  offer  document  and  shall be  punishable  under  the  Act  unless  he  proves either that the statement or opinion was immaterial or that he had reasonable ground to believe at the time of the issue of the offer document or advertisement that the statement was true. Offer period
30. No 99[collective investment scheme] shall be open for subscription for more than 90 days. Allotment of Units and refunds of moneys
31. (1) The Collective Investment Management Company shall specify in the offer document,— (a) the minimum and the maximum subscription amount it seeks to raise under the 100[collective investment scheme]; and (b) in case of oversubscription the process of allotment of the amount oversubscribed.
(2) The Collective Investment Management Company shall refund the application money to the applicants,— (i)  if  the 101[collective  investment  scheme]  fails  to  receive  the  minimum  subscription  amount referred to in clause (a) of sub-regulation (1).
(3)  Any  amount  refundable  under  sub-regulation  (2)  shall  be  refunded  within  a  period  of  six weeks from the date of closure of subscription list, by Registered A.D. and by cheque or demand draft marked “A/C Payee” to the applicants.
(4) In the event of failure to refund the amounts within the period specified in sub-regulation (3), the Collective Investment Management Company shall pay interest to the applicants at a rate of fifteen per cent per annum on the expiry of six weeks from the date of closure of the subscription list. Unit certificates
32.  The  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  issue  to  the  applicant  whose application has been accepted, unit certificates as soon as possible but  not  later than six  weeks from the date of closure of the subscription list : Provided that if the units are issued through a depository, a receipt in lieu of unit certificate will be  issued  as  per  provisions  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Depositories  and Participants) Regulations, 1996 and byelaws of the depository. Transfer of units
33.  (1)  A  unit  certificate  issued  under  the  102[collective  investment  scheme]  shall  be  freely transferable.
(2)  The  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall,  on  production  of  instrument  of transfer together with relevant unit certificates, register the transfer and return the unit certificate to the transferee within thirty days from the date of such production. Provided  that if the units are held in a depository such units shall be transferable in accordance with  the  provisions  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Depositories  and Participants) Regulations, 1996 and the byelaws of the depository. Money to be kept in separate account and utilisation of money
34. (1) The subscription amount received shall be kept in a separate bank account in the name of the 103[collective investment scheme] and shall be utilised for— (a) adjustment against allotment of units only after the trustee has received a statement from the registrars to the issue and share transfer agent regarding minimum subscription amount, as stated in the offer document, having been received from the public, or (b) for refund of money in case minimum subscription amount, as stated in the offer document, has not been received or in case of over-subscription.
(2) The minimum subscription amount as specified in the offer document shall not be less than the  minimum  amount,  as  specified  by  the  appraising  agency,  needed  for  completion  of  the project for which the 104[collective investment scheme] is being launched.
(3) The moneys credited to the account of the 105[collective investment scheme] shall be utilised for the purposes of the 106[collective investment scheme] and as specified in the offer document.
(4) Any unutilised amount lying in the account of the 107[collective investment scheme] shall be invested in the manner as disclosed in the offer document. Investments and segregation of funds
35. The Collective Investment Management Company shall: (a)  not  invest  the  funds  of  the 108[collective  investment  scheme]  for  purposes  other  than  the objective of the 109[collective investment scheme] as disclosed in the offer document. (b) segregate the 110[collective investment  scheme]  assets of different  s111[collective investment scheme] s. (c)  not  invest  corpus  of  a 112[collective  investment  scheme]  in  other 113[collective  investment scheme]s. (d)  not  transfer  funds  from  one  114 [collective  investment  scheme]  to  another  115 [collective investment scheme]: Provided  that  inter-scheme  transfer  of  116 [collective  investment  scheme]  property  may  be permitted at the time of termination of the 117[collective investment scheme] with prior approval of the trustee and the Board. Listing of 118[collective investment scheme]s
36. The units of every 119[collective investment scheme] shall be listed immediately after the date of  allotment  of  units  and  not  later  than  six  weeks  from  the  date  of  closure  of  the 120[collective investment scheme] on each of the stock exchanges as mentioned in the offer document. Winding up of 121[collective investment scheme]
37. (1) A 122[collective investment scheme] shall be wound up on the expiry of duration specified in  the  123 [collective  investment  scheme]  or  on  the  accomplishment  of  the  purpose  of  the 124[collective investment scheme]. 108 ibid. 109 ibid. 110 ibid. 111 ibid. 112 ibid. 113 ibid. 114 ibid. 115 ibid. 116 ibid. 117 ibid. 118 ibid. 119 ibid. 120 ibid. 121 ibid. 122 ibid. 123 ibid. 124 ibid.
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  a  125 [collective  investment scheme] may also be wound up— (a) on the happening of any event which, in the opinion of the trustee, requires the 126[collective investment scheme] to be wound up and the prior approval of the Board is obtained; or (b)  if  unit  holders  of  a 127[collective  investment  scheme]  holding  at  least  three-fourth  of  the nominal  value of the unit capital  of the 128[collective investment  scheme] pass a resolution that the 129[collective investment scheme] be wound up and the approval of the Board is obtained; or (c)  if  in  the  opinion  of  the  Board,  the  continuance  of  the 130[collective  investment  scheme]  is prejudicial to the interests of the unit holders; or (d)  if  in  the  opinion  of  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company,  the  purpose  of  the 131[collective  investment  scheme]  cannot  be  accomplished  and  it  obtains  the  approval  of  the trustees  and  also  of  the  unit  holders  of  the 132[collective  investment  scheme]  holding  at  least three-fourth of the nominal value of the unit capital of the 133[collective investment scheme] with a  resolution  that  the 134[collective  investment  scheme]  be  wound  up  and  the  approval  of  the Board is obtained.
(3) Where a 135[collective investment scheme] is to be wound up under sub-regulation (1) or sub- regulation (2), the  trustee  shall  give  notice  disclosing  the  circumstances  leading  to  the  winding up  of  the 136[collective  investment  scheme]  in  a  daily  newspaper  having  nationwide  circulation and in the newspaper published in the language of the region where the Collective Investment Management Company is registered. (4)(a) The trustee shall dispose of the assets of the 137[collective investment scheme] concerned in the best interest of the unit holders of that 138[collective investment scheme]. (b) The proceeds of sale realised under clause (a), shall be first utilized towards the discharge of such  liabilities  as  are  due  and  payable  under  the 139[collective  investment  scheme]  and  after making  appropriate  provision  for  meeting  the  expenses  connected  with  such  winding  up,  the balance shall be paid to the unit holders in proportion to their unit holding.
(5)  On  the  completion  of  the  winding  up,  the  trustee  shall  forward  to  the  Board  and  the  unit holders : (a) a report  on the steps taken for realisation of assets of the 140[collective investment  scheme], expenses for winding up and net assets available for distribution to the unit holders, and (b) a certificate from the auditors of the 141[collective investment scheme] to the effect that all the assets of the 142[collective investment  scheme] are realised and the details of the distribution  of the proceeds.
(6)  The  unclaimed  money  if  any  at  the  time  of  winding  up  shall  be  kept  separately  in  a  bank account by the trustee for a period of three years for the purpose of meeting investors’ claims and thereafter shall be transferred to investor protection fund, as may be specified by the Board. Effect of commencement of winding up proceedings
38.  On and from the date of the publication of notice under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 37, the trustee or the Collective Investment Management Company as the case may be, shall cease to carry on any business activities in respect of the 143[collective investment scheme] so wound up. Cessation of the 144[collective investment scheme]
39.  If,  after  the  receipt  of  the  report  under  sub-regulation  (5)  of  regulation  37,  the  Board  is satisfied that all the measures for winding up of the 145[collective investment scheme] have been complied with, the 146[collective investment scheme] shall cease to exist. CHAPTER VI GENERAL OBLIGATIONS To maintain proper books of account and records, etc.
40. (1) Every Collective Investment Management Company shall— (a)  keep  and  maintain  proper  books  of  account,  records  and  documents,  for  each 147[collective investment  scheme]  so  as  to  explain  its  transactions  and  to  disclose  at  any  point  of  time  the financial position of each 148[collective investment scheme] and in  particular give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 149[collective investment scheme], and (b)  intimate  to  the  Board  and  the  trustees  the  place  where  such  books  of  account,  records  and documents including computer records are maintained.
(2) Every Collective Investment Management Company shall continue to maintain and preserve, for a period  of five years after the close of each 150[collective investment scheme], its books of account, records, computer data and documents. Financial year
41. The financial year for all the 151[collective investment scheme]s shall end as on March 31 of each year. Dispatch of warrants and proceeds
42. The Collective Investment Management Company shall, (a)  Dispatch  to  the  unit  holders  the  warrants  within  42  days  of  the  declaration  of  the  interim returns. (b)  Dispatch  the  redemption  proceeds  within  30  days  of  the  closure  or  the  winding  up  of  the 152[collective investment scheme]. Statement of Accounts and Annual Report
43. (1) The Collective Investment Management Company shall: (a)  not  exceed  the  ceilings  on  expenses  or  fees  in  respect  of  the  153 [collective  investment scheme] as specified in Part I of the Ninth Schedule; (b) prepare the accounts of the 154[collective investment scheme] in accordance with accounting norms as specified in Part II of the Ninth Schedule; (c) comply with format of balance sheet  and profit and loss accounts as specified in  Part III  of the Ninth Schedule.
(2) An annual report and annual statement of accounts of each 155[collective investment scheme] shall be prepared in respect of each financial year.
(3) Every Collective Investment  Management Company shall within two months from  the date of closure of each financial year forward to the Board a copy of the Annual Report. Auditor’s Report
44.  (1)  Every 156[collective  investment  scheme]  shall  have  the  annual  statement  of  accounts audited by an auditor who is empanelled with  the Board  and who is not  in  any way associated with the auditor of the Collective Investment Management Company.
(2) The auditor shall be appointed by the trustee.
(3)  The  auditor  shall  forward  his  report  to  the  trustee  and  such  report  shall  form  part  of  the Annual Report of the v.
(4) The auditor’s report shall comprise the following:— (a) a certificate to the effect that:— (i)  he  has  obtained  all  information  and  explanations  which,  to  the  best  of  his  knowledge  and belief, were necessary for the purpose of the audit; (ii) the balance sheet and the revenue account give a fair and true view of the v, state of affairs and surplus or deficit in the 157[collective investment scheme] for the accounting period to which the Balance Sheet or, as the case may be the Revenue Account relates; (iii)  the  statement  of  account  has  been  prepared  in  accordance  with  accounting  policies  and standards as specified in Part II of the Ninth Schedule; (iv)  any  other  matter  which  in  the  opinion  of  the  auditor  is  vital  and  has  a  bearing  on  the 158[collective investment scheme]s. Functions of auditors of 159[collective investment scheme]
45. (1) The auditor of the 160[collective investment scheme] shall, as soon as possible, notify the Board and the trustee in writing if he has reasonable grounds to  suspect  that a contravention of the  regulations  has  occurred  or  if  the 161[collective  investment  scheme]s  are  not  conducted  on sound commercial principles.
(2) The auditor of the 162[collective investment scheme]: (a)  shall  have  a  right  to  access  at  all  reasonable  times  to  the  books  of  the  163 [collective investment scheme]; and (b)  may  require  any  employee  of  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  to  give the auditor information and explanations for the purposes of the audit. Removal or Resignation of auditors
46.  (1) The trustee, after prior approval of the trustee and for reasons to  be recorded in  writing remove the auditor of the  v for  misconduct  or inefficiency after giving the auditor a reasonable opportunity of hearing : Provided  that  another  auditor  for  the 164[collective investment  scheme]  is  appointed  by  trustee immediately from auditors empanelled with the Board.
(2)  The  auditor  of  the 165[collective  investment  scheme]  may  resign  by  giving  a  three  months written notice to the Collective Investment Management Company and to the trustee. Publication of Annual Report and summary thereof
47.  (1)  The 166[collective  investment  scheme]  wise  annual  report  or  an  abridged  form  thereof shall be published in a national daily as soon as possible but not later than two calendar months from the date of finalisation of accounts.
(2)  The  annual  report  shall  contain  details  as  specified  in  the  Ninth  Schedule  and  such  other details as are necessary for the purpose of providing a true and fair view of the operations of the collective investment scheme.
(3)  The  report  if  published  in  abridged  form  shall  carry  a  note  that  full  annual  report  shall  be available  for  inspection  at  the  Head  Office  and  all  branch  offices  of  the  Collective  Investment Management Company. Periodic and continual disclosures
48.  (1)  The  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  and  the  trustee,  shall  make  such disclosures  or  submit  such  documents  as  they  may  be  called  upon  by  the  Board  to  make  or submit.
(2)  Without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of  sub-regulation  (1),  the  Collective  Investment Management  Company  on  behalf  of  the  167 [collective  investment  scheme]  shall  furnish  the following periodic reports to the Board, namely: (a) copies of the duly audited annual  statements of account including the balance sheet  and the profit and loss account in respect of each 168[collective investment scheme], once a year; (b) a copy of quarterly unaudited accounts; (c)  a  quarterly  statement  of  changes  in  net  assets  for  each  of  the  169 [collective  investment scheme]s. Quarterly disclosures
49.  A  Collective  Investment  Management  Company,  on  behalf  of  the 170[collective  investment scheme] shall before the expiry of one month from the close of each quarter that is 31st March, 30th June, 30th September and 31st December publish its unaudited financial results in one daily newspaper  having  nationwide  circulation  and  in  a  newspaper  published  in  the  language  of  the region where the Head Office of the Collective Investment Management Company is situated. Provided that the quarterly unaudited report referred in this sub-regulation shall contain details as specified in the regulations and such other details as are necessary for the purpose of providing a true and fair view of the operations of the 171[collective investment scheme]. Disclosures to the investors
50.  The  trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  shall  make such  disclosures  to  the  unit  holders  as  are  essential  in  order  to  keep  them  informed  about  any matter which may have an adverse bearing on their investments. Calling of meeting of unit holders, transfer and transmission of units
51.  The  calling  of  meeting  of  unit  holders  as  well  as  transfer  and  transmission  of  units  of 172[collective investment scheme] shall be as per the provisions of the Eighth Schedule. CHAPTER VII INSPECTION AND AUDIT Board’s right to inspect and investigate
52.  (1)  The  Board  may  appoint  one  or  more  persons  as  Inspecting  Officer  to  undertake  the inspection  of  the  books  of  account,  records,  documents  and  infrastructure,  systems  and procedures  or  to  investigate  the  affairs  of  the  trustee  and  Collective  Investment  Management Company for any of the following purposes, namely: (a)  to  ensure  that  the  books  of  account  are  being  maintained  by  the  Collective  Investment Management Company in the manner specified in these regulations; (b) to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act and these regulations are being complied with by the trustee and Collective Investment Management Company; (c)  to  ascertain  whether  the  systems,  procedures  and  safeguards  followed  by  the  Collective Investment Management Company are adequate; (d)  to  investigate  into  the  complaints  received  from  the  investors  or  any  other  person  on  any matter  having  a  bearing  on the  activities  of  the  trustee  and  Collective  Investment  Management Company. Notice before inspection and investigation
53. (1) Before ordering an inspection under regulation 52 the Board shall give not less than ten days notice to the Collective Investment Management Company or trustee as the case may be.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such notice is required to be given, it may, by an order in writing direct that such inspection or investigation be taken up immediately without any notice.
(3)  During  the  course  of  inspection  or  investigation,  the  trustee  or  Collective  Investment Management Company against whom the inspection or investigation is being carried out shall be bound to discharge his obligations as provided in regulation 54. Obligations during inspection and investigation
54. (1) It shall be the duty of the trustee or Collective Investment Management Company whose affairs  are  being  32  inspected  or  investigated,  and  of  every  director,  officer  and  employee thereof, to produce such books, accounts, records, and other documents in its custody or control and furnish him such statements and information relating to the activities as trustee or Collective Investment Management Company, as the inspecting officer may require, within such reasonable period as the inspecting officer may specify.
(2) The trustee or Collective Investment Management Company shall allow the inspecting officer to  have a reasonable access to  the premises occupied by it or by any other person on its behalf and  also  provide  necessary  infrastructure  for  examining  any  books,  records,  documents,  and computer data in the possession of the trustee and Collective Investment Management Company or  such  other  person  and  also  provide  copies  of  documents  or  other  materials  which  in  the opinion of the inspecting officer are relevant for the purpose of the inspection. Submission of report to the Board
55. The inspecting officer shall, on completion of the inspection or investigation, submit a report to the Board : Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he shall submit interim reports also. 173Action on inspection or investigation report Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002. Prior to substitution the regulation 56 read as under:
56. The Board or the Chairman shall after consideration of inspection or investigation report take such  action  as  the  Board  or  Chairman  may  deem  fit  and  appropriate  including  action  under 174Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008].] Appointment of Auditor and recovery of expenses
57.  (1) Without  prejudice to  the  provisions of regulation  52, the Board shall have the power to appoint an auditor to inspect or investigate, as the case may be, into the books of account or the affairs of the trustee or Collective Investment Management Company in respect of 175[collective investment scheme]s : Provided that  the  Auditor  so  appointed  shall  have  the  same  powers  of  the  inspecting  officer  as stated in regulation 52 and the obligation of the Collective Investment Management Company or trustee  and  their  respective  employees  in  regulation  54,  shall  be  applicable  to  the  inspection under this regulation. Payment of inspection fees to the Board
(2) The  Board  shall  be  entitled  to  recover  such  expenses  including  fees  paid  to  the  auditors  as may be incurred by it for the purposes of inspecting the books of account, records and documents of the trustee or Collective Investment Management Company. PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT CHAPTER VIII
58. 176[***] 177Liability for action in case of default “Communications of findings, etc.
56.  (1)  The  Board  shall,  after  consideration  of  the  report  referred  to  in  regulation  55, communicate the findings to  the trustee or Collective Investment  Management Company as the case may be, and give him an opportunity of being heard within fourteen days from the date of receipt of such communication.
(2) Without prejudice to its right to initiate necessary action under the Act and these regulations, the Board upon receipt of the reply, if any, from the trustee or Collective Investment Management Company may call upon it to take such remedial measures as the Board may direct in this behalf and may also initiate action under Chapter VIII of these regulations.”
59. In case a Collective Investment Management Company— (a) contravenes any provision of the Act or these regulations; (b) for the purposes of these regulations furnishes any information which is false or misleading or suppresses any material information; (c) does not co-operate in any inspection, investigation or inquiry conducted by the Board under the Act or these regulations; (d) fails to comply with any directions issued by the Board under the Act or the regulations; (e) fails to resolve the complaints of the investors or fails to furnish to the Board a satisfactory reply in this behalf when called upon to do so by the Board; (f) commits a breach of any provision of the Code of Conduct specified in the Third Schedule; (g) fails to pay the fees specified in the Second Schedule; (h) commits a breach of the conditions of registration; or (i)  fails  to  make  an  application  for  listing  or  fails  to  list  units  of  a 178[collective  investment scheme]  in  a  recognized  stock  exchange,  shall  be  dealt  with  in  the  manner  provided  in 179[Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008].
60. to 64. 180[***] Directions by the Board
65.  The  Board  may,  in  the  interests  of  the  securities  market  and  the  investors  and  without prejudice  to  its  right  to  initiate  action  under  this  Chapter,  including  initiation  of  criminal prosecution  under  section  24  of  the  Act,  give  such  directions  as it  deems fit  in  order  to  ensure effective observance of these regulations, including directions: (a)  requiring  the  person  concerned  not  to  collect  any  money  from  investors  or  to  launch  any 181[collective investment scheme]; (b) prohibiting the person concerned from disposing of any of the properties of the 182[collective investment scheme] acquired in violation of these regulations; (c)  requiring  the  person  concerned  to  dispose  of  the  assets  of  the  183 [collective  investment scheme] in a manner as may be specified in the directions; (d) requiring the person concerned to refund any money or the assets to the concerned investors along  with  the  requisite  interest  or  otherwise,  collected  under  the  184 [collective  investment scheme]; (e) prohibiting the person concerned from operating in the capital market or from accessing the capital market for a specified period. Action against intermediaries
66.  The  Board  may  initiate  action  for  suspension  or  cancellation  of  registration  of  an intermediary holding a certificate of registration under section 12 of the Act who fails to exercise due  diligence  in  the  performance  of  its  functions  or  fails  to  comply  with  its  obligations  under these regulations : Provided  that  no  such  certificate  of  registration  shall  be  suspended  or  cancelled  unless  the procedure specified in the regulations applicable to such intermediary is complied with. Appeal to the Central Government
18567. Any person aggrieved by an order of the Board made, on and after the commencement of the  Securities  Laws  (Second  Amendment)  Act,  1999,  (i.e.,  after  16th  December,  1999),  under these  regulations may prefer an appeal  to a Securities Appellate Tribunal having  jurisdiction  in the matter.] EXISTING COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEMES CHAPTER IX Existing 186[collective investment scheme]s to obtain provisional registration
68.  (1)  Any  person  who  has  been  operating  a  collective  investment  scheme  at  the  time  of commencement  of  these  regulations  shall  be  deemed  to  be  an  existing  collective  investment scheme and shall also comply with the provisions of this Chapter. out the obligations undertaken in the various documents entered into with the investors who have subscribed to the 187[collective investment scheme].
(2)  An  existing  collective  investment  scheme  shall  make  an  application  to  theBoard  in  the manner specified in regulation 5.
(3)  The  application  made  under  sub-regulation  (2)  shall  be  dealt  with  in  any  of  the  following manner: (a) by grant of provisional registration by the Board under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 71; (b) by grant of a certificate of registration by the Board under regulation 10; (c) by rejection of the application for registration by the Board under regulation 12. No 188[collective investment scheme] to be launched until grant of registration
69.  No  existing  collective  investment  scheme  shall  launch  any  new 189[collective  investment scheme]  or  raise  money  from  the  investors  even  under  the  existing 190[collective  investment scheme], unless a certificate of registration is granted to it by the Board under regulation 10. Consideration of application for grant of provisional registration
70.  (1)  The  applicant  for  the  purpose  of  being  considered  eligible  for  the  grant  of  provisional registration shall satisfy the Board that— (a)  the  191 [collective  investment  scheme]s  of  the  applicant  are  in  the  nature  of  collective investment schemes; (b) the affairs of the applicant are not being conducted in a manner detrimental to the interest of existing investors; (c) the applicant has at least 50% independent directors at the time of making the application. persons operating the existing collective investment scheme; (d) any person, directly or indirectly connected with  it has not  been granted registration by the Board under the Act.
(2)  The  Board  for  the  purposes  of  grant  of  provisional  registration  may,  inter  alia,  inspect  the 192[collective investment scheme]s, books of account, records and documents of the applicant.
(3) The Board shall recover from the applicant such expenses including fees paid to the auditor, appraising  agency  as  may  be  incurred  by  it  for  the  purposes  of  inspecting  the 193[collective investment scheme]s, books of account, records and documents of the applicant.
(4)  The  Board  on  being  satisfied  that  the  requirements  specified  in  sub-regulation  (1)  are  not fulfilled  may  reject  the  application  and  the  applicant  thereupon  shall  wind  up  its  existing 194[collective investment scheme] (s) in the manner specified in regulation 73. Grant of provisional registration
71. (1) The Board after being satisfied that the conditions specified in regulation 70 are fulfilled may  grant  provisional  registration  to  the  applicant  subject  to  the  following  conditions,  namely :— (a) the applicant shall get the existing 195[collective investment scheme]s rated by a credit rating agency within 196[two] year from the date of grant of provisional registration; (b) the  applicant  shall  get  the  existing 197[collective investment  scheme]s  audited  by  an  auditor within a period of 198[two] year from the date of grant of provisional registration; (c) the applicant shall get existing 199[collective investment scheme]s appraised by an appraising agency within a period of 200[two] year from the date of grant of provisional registration; (d) the applicant shall create a trust and appoint trustees in the manner specified in Chapter IV of these  regulations  within  a  period  of    201 [two]  years  from  the  date  of  grant  of  provisional registration; (e)  the  applicant  shall  comply  with  accounting  and  valuation  norms  in  respect  of 202[collective investment  scheme]s floated before the commencement of these regulations as specified in Part II of the Ninth Schedule within a period of 203[two] year from the date of provisional registration; (f) the applicant shall meet the minimum net worth of Rupees one crore within one year from the date of grant of provisional registration which shall be increased by Rupees one crore each within  two  years,  three  years,  four  years  and  five  years  from  the  date  of  grant  of  provisional registration; (g)  the  applicant  shall  not  dispose  of  the 204[collective  investment  scheme]  property  except for meeting obligations arising under the offer document of the 205[collective investment scheme]; (h) the applicant shall comply with the conditions specified in regulation 11; (i) such other conditions which the Board may impose.
(2)  The  applicant  shall  give  a  written  undertaking  to  the  Board  to  comply  with  the  conditions specified in sub-regulation (1).
(3) The applicant who has been considered eligible for the grant of provisional registration by the Board shall pay provisional registration fee as per the Second Schedule.
(4) An applicant who after grant of provisional registration fails to comply with the conditions as specified in  sub-regulation  (1) and  regulation 9 shall not  be considered eligible for the grant  of certificate  of  registration  under  regulation  10  and  shall  wind  up  the 206[collective  investment scheme] in the manner specified in regulation 73. Registration to existing 207[collective investment scheme]
72.  (1)  An  existing  Collective  Investment  Scheme  which  satisfies  the  Board  that  the requirements specified in regulation 9 and the conditions specified under regulation 71 have been fulfilled,  shall  be  granted  a  certificate  of  registration  under  regulation  10  upon  payment  of registration fees as specified in paragraph 2 of the Second Schedule and on such terms and conditions as may be specified by the Board.
(2) An existing Collective Investment Scheme which has been granted certificate of registration under sub-regulation (1) may be allowed to float new 208[collective investment scheme]s on such terms and conditions as may be specified by the Board. Manner of repayment and winding up
73. (1) An existing collective investment scheme which: (a) has failed to make an application for registration to the Board; or (b) has not been granted provisional registration by the Board; or (c) having obtained provisional registration fails to comply with the provisions of regulation 71; shall wind up the existing 209[collective investment scheme].
(2)  The  existing  Collective  Investment  Scheme  to  be  wound  up  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall send  an  information  memorandum  to  the  investors  who  have  subscribed  to  the 210[collective investment scheme]s, within two months from the date of receipt of intimation from the Board, detailing  the  state  of  affairs  of  the 211[collective  investment  scheme],  the  amount  repayable  to each investor and the manner in which such amount is determined.
(3) The information memorandum referred to in sub-regulation (2) shall be dated and signed by all the directors of the 212[collective investment scheme].
(4) The Board may specify such other disclosures to be made in the information memorandum, as it deems fit.
(5) The information memorandum shall be sent to the investors within one week from the date of the information memorandum.
(6) The information memorandum shall explicitly state that investors desirous of continuing with the 213[collective  investment  scheme]  shall  have  to  give  a  positive  consent  within  one  month from  the  date  of  the  information  memorandum  to  continue  with  the 214[collective  investment scheme].
(7)  The  investors  who  give  positive  consent  under  sub-regulation  (6),  shall  continue  with  the 215[collective investment scheme] at their risk and responsibility : Provided  that  if  the  positive  consent  to  continue  with  the 216[collective  investment  scheme],  is received  from  only  twenty-five  per  cent  or  less  of  the  total  number  of  existing  investors,  the 217[collective investment scheme] shall be wound up.
(8)  The  payment  to  the  investors,  shall  be  made  within  three  months  of  the  date  of  the information memorandum.
(9)  On  completion  of the  winding  up,  the  existing  collective  investment  scheme  shall  file  with the Board such reports, as may be specified by the Board. Existing 218[collective investment scheme] not desirous of obtaining registration to repay
74.  An  existing  collective  investment  scheme  which  is  not  desirous  of  obtaining  provisional registration from the Board shall formulate a scheme of repayment and make such repayment to the existing investors in the manner specified in regulation 73. 219[CHAPTER IX A EXISTING SCHEMES OR ARRANGEMENTS DEEMED TO BE A COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEME Existing  schemes  or  arrangements  deemed  to  be  a  collective  investment  scheme  to  obtain provisional registration
74A.  (1)  Any  person  who  has  been  operating  a  scheme  or  arrangement  deemed  to  be  a  collective investment  scheme  under  the  proviso  to  sub-section  (1)  of  section  11AA  of  the  Act  at  the  time  of commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Collective  Investment  Schemes) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, shall be deemed to be an existing collective investment scheme and shall also comply with the provisions of Chapter IX: Provided that any scheme or arrangement which is otherwise regulated or prohibited under any other law shall not be deemed to be a collective investment scheme. investment  scheme’  shall  include  carrying  out  the  obligations  undertaken  in  the  various  documents entered into with the investors who have subscribed to the scheme or arrangement.
(2) An existing collective investment scheme shall  make an application to the Board  in the manner specified in regulation 5.] 220[CHAPTER IX-B POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
74B. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new  products, processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  in  live  environment  of  regulatory  sandbox  in  the securities markets.
(2)  Any  exemption  granted  by  the  Board  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  subject  to  the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board.] CHAPTER X MISCELLANEOUS Power of the Board to issue clarifications
75. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of notes or circulars which  shall  be  binding  on  the  trustee  or  Collective  Investment  Management  Company  or  any other intermediary in the capital market.
3.  No person shall act as a portfolio manager unless it has obtained a certificate of registration from the Board under these regulations. Application for grant of certificate.
4.  (1) An application by a person for the grant of a certificate shall be made to the Board in Form A of Schedule I and shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee, as specified in para
(1) of Schedule II.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), any application made by a person prior to  coming into  force of these regulations containing  such particulars or as near thereto  as mentioned in Form A of Schedule I shall be treated as an application made in pursuance of sub- regulation (1) and dealt with accordingly. Application to conform to the requirements.
5.  Subject  to the provisions of sub-regulation (2) of regulation  4, any application, which is not complete in all respects and does not conform to the instructions specified in the form, shall be rejected: Provided that, before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given an opportunity to remove objections indicated by the Board, within the time specified, not later than 3 weeks. Furnishing of further information, clarification and personal representation.
6.  (1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish further information or clarification regarding matters  relevant  to  his  activity  of  a  portfolio  manager  for  the  purposes  of  disposal  of  the application.
(2) The applicant or its principal officer shall, if so required, appear before the Board for personal representation. Consideration of application.
7.   (1) For considering the grant of certificate of registration to the applicant, the Board shall take into account all matters which it deems relevant to the activities relating to portfolio management.
(2)  Without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of  the  foregoing  provisions,  the  Board  shall  consider whether :- (a) the applicant is a body corporate; (b) the applicant has the necessary infrastructure like adequate office space, equipment and the manpower to effectively discharge the activities of a portfolio manager; (c) the applicant has appointed a compliance officer; (d) the principal officer of the applicant has– (i) a professional qualification in finance, law, accountancy or business management from  a university or an institution recognized by the Central  Government or any State Government or a foreign university or a CFA charter from the CFA institute; (ii) experience  of  at  least  five  years  in  related  activities  in  the  securities  market including in a portfolio manager, stock broker, investment advisor, research analyst or as a fund manager; and (iii) the relevant NISM certification as specified by the Board from time to time. Provided  that  at  least  2  years  of  relevant  experience  is  in  portfolio  management  or investment advisory services or in the areas related to fund management. Provided further  that a portfolio manager, who was granted a certificate of registration prior  to  the  commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020, shall comply with sub clauses (i) and (ii) of clause (d) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 7 within thirty-six months from such commencement. (e) In  addition  to  the  Principal  Officer  and  Compliance  Officer,  the  applicant  has  in  its employment at least one person with the following qualifications :- (i) graduation  from  a  university  or  an  institution  recognized  by  the  Central Government or any State Government or a foreign university; and (ii) an  experience  of  at  least  two  years  in  related  activities  in  the  securities  market including in a portfolio manager, stock broker, investment advisor or as a fund manager: Provided that any employee of the Portfolio Manager who has decision making authority related to fund management shall have the same minimum qualifications and experience as specified for the Principal Officer in clause (d) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 7: Provided further that a portfolio manager, who was granted a certificate of registration prior  to  the  commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020, shall comply with sub clauses (i) and (ii) of clause (e) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 7 within twelve months from such commencement; (f) any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board against a person directly or indirectly connected with the applicant under the Act or the rules or the regulations made thereunder; indirectly  connected"  means  any  person  being  an  associate,  subsidiary  company  or  an associate company within the meaning of sub-section (6) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013; (g) the applicant fulfills the net worth requirement specified in regulation 9; (h) the applicant, its director or partner, principal officer, compliance officer or the employee as specified in clause (e) is involved in any litigation connected with the securities market that has an adverse bearing on the business of the applicant; (i) the applicant, its director or partner, principal officer, compliance officer or the employee as specified in clause (e) has at any time been convicted for any offence involving moral turpitude or has been found guilty of any economic offence; (j) the applicant is a fit and proper person; (k) the grant of certificate to the applicant is in the interest of investors. Criteria for fit and proper person.
8.    For  the  purposes  of  determining  whether  an applicant  or  the  portfolio  manager  is  a  fit  and proper  person,  the  Board  may  take  into  account  the  criteria  specified  in  Schedule  II  of  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008. Net worth Requirement.
9.   The net worth referred to in clause (g) of regulation 7 shall not be less than five crore rupees: Provided  that  a  portfolio  manager,  who  was  granted  a  certificate  of  registration  prior  to  the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020, shall raise its net worth to not less than five crore rupees within thirty-six months from such commencement: Provided  further  that the  portfolio  manager  shall fulfill  the  net  worth  requirements  under these regulations, separately and independently, of the capital adequacy requirements, if any, for each activity undertaken by it under the relevant regulations. up equity capital plus free reserves (excluding reserves created out of revaluation) reduced by the aggregate  value  of  accumulated  losses  and  deferred  expenditure  not  written  off,  including miscellaneous expenses not written off. Procedure for registration.
10.      (1)    The  Board  on  being  satisfied  that  the  applicant  fulfils  the  requirements  specified  in regulation 7 shall send an intimation to the applicant and on receipt of the payment of registration fees as specified in paragraph (2) of Schedule II grant a certificate in Form B of Schedule I.
(2)  The portfolio manager who has already been granted a certificate of registration by the Board, prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020 shall be deemed to have been granted a certificate of registration, in terms of sub- regulation (1). Conditions of registration.
11. The certificate of registration granted under regulation  10 shall, inter  alia, be subject  to the following conditions, namely: - (a) the portfolio manager shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations; (b) the portfolio manager shall forthwith inform the Board in writing, if any information or particulars previously submitted to the Board are found to be false or misleading in any material particular or if there is any material change in the information already submitted; (c) the portfolio manager shall pay the fees for registration in the manner provided in these regulations; (d) the  portfolio  manager  shall  take  adequate  steps  for  redressal  of  grievances  of  the investors within one month of the date of the receipt of the complaint and keep the Board  informed  about  the  number,  nature  and  other  particulars  of  the  complaints received; and (e) the  portfolio  manager  shall  maintain  the  net  worth  specified  in  regulation  9  at  all times during the period of the certificate. Period of validity of certificate.
12.  The certificate of registration granted under regulation 10 shall be valid unless it is suspended or cancelled by the Board. Procedure where registration is refused
13.  (1) After considering an application made under regulation 4, if the Board is of the opinion that a certificate should not be granted to the applicant, it may reject the application after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(2)  The  decision  of  the  Board  to  reject  the  application  shall  be  communicated  to  the  applicant within thirty days of such decision. Effect of refusal to grant certificate.
14.   Any portfolio manager whose application for a certificate has been refused by the Board shall on and from the date of the receipt of the communication under sub- regulation (2) of regulation 13 cease to carry on any activity as portfolio manager. Payment of fees, and the consequences of failure to pay fees.
15.   (1) Every applicant eligible for grant of a certificate shall pay  such fees within 15 days of receiving intimation from the Board and in such manner as specified in       Schedule II: Provided that the Board may on sufficient cause being shown allow the portfolio manager to pay such fees at any time before the expiry of one month from the date on which such fees become due.
(2)  Where a portfolio manager fails to pay the fees as provided in Schedule II, the Board may suspend  the  certificate,  whereupon  the  portfolio  manager  shall  forthwith  cease  to  carry  on  the activity as a portfolio manager for the period during which the suspension subsists. CHAPTER III ELIGIBLE FUND MANAGERS Applicability.
16.  (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to eligible fund managers exclusively, pertaining to their activities as portfolio managers to eligible investment funds.
(2) All other provisions of these regulations and the guidelines and circulars issued thereunder, unless the context otherwise requires or is repugnant to the provisions of this chapter, shall apply to eligible fund managers in relation to their activities as portfolio managers to eligible investment funds. Procedure to be followed by an existing Portfolio Manager.
17.   An existing portfolio manager may act as a portfolio manager to an eligible investment fund if: (a)   it fulfills all the conditions specified in sub section (4) of Section 9A of the Income-tax Act, 1961; and (b)      it intimates the Board prior to undertaking such activity and submit declarations as specified in clause (1) of Schedule VI. Procedure to be followed by an applicant for fresh registration.
18.   An applicant who is a body corporate who intends to act as an eligible fund manager may be granted registration under regulation 10 if: (a)  it fulfills all the conditions specified in sub section (4) of Section 9A of the Income-tax Act, 1961; (b)  it complies with the requirements specified under Chapter II of these regulations, unless specified otherwise in this Chapter; (c)  it pays the fees as specified in Schedule II; and (d)   it provides a declaration to the Board as specified in paragraph (2) of      Schedule VI. Obligation and Responsibilities of Eligible Fund Managers.
19.   An eligible fund manager shall be required to: -
(1) comply with the requirements specified under Section 9A of the Income-tax Act, 1961 or any amendment, notification, clarification, guideline issued thereunder;
(2) offer  discretionary  or  non-discretionary  or  advisory  services  or  a  combination thereof to eligible investment funds; operate in accordance to its mutually agreed contract with the eligible investment
(3) funds;
(4)         provide all material disclosures to eligible investment funds;
(5) (6) segregate funds and securities of each eligible investment fund; segregate  the  funds  and  securities  of  eligible  investment  funds  from  those  of  its other clients;
(7)          maintain  and  segregate  its  books  and  accounts  pertaining  to  its  activities  as  a portfolio manager to eligible investment funds and other clients;
(8)          appoint a custodian: Provided that the requirement of compliance with this sub-regulation would not arise in case an eligible investment  fund has already appointed a custodian under the applicable act  or regulations;
(9)        keep the funds of eligible investment funds in scheduled commercial banks; Provided that requirement of compliance with this sub-regulation would not arise in case an eligible investment fund does not intend to invest in Indian securities;
(10) maintain any additional records as may be specified by the Board and disclose the same to the Board as and when required;
(11) provide quarterly reports to the Board;
(12) ensure compliance with the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 and rules and regulations made thereunder;
(13) abide by the provisions in these regulations and circulars / guidelines issued by the Board from time to time. Certain provisions not to apply.
20.    The eligible fund managers shall be exempted from  the following provisions pertaining  to their  activities  as  portfolio  managers  to  eligible  investment  funds  notwithstanding  anything contained in these regulations, Schedules thereto or circulars issued thereunder: (i)    sub-regulation (1), (2), (3) and (4) of Regulation 22; (ii)    sub-regulation (2), (3), (4), (8) and (9) of Regulation 23; (iii)   clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 24; (iv)   clause (a) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 24; (v)    sub-regulation (7) of Regulation 24; (vi)    sub-regulation (11) of Regulation 24; (vii)   Regulation 26; (viii)  sub-regulation (3) of Regulation 30; (ix)    sub-regulation (1), (2), and (3) of Regulation 31; (x)  Form C in Schedule I; and (xi)  Schedules IV and V. CHAPTER IV GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES Code of Conduct.
21.    Every portfolio manager shall abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in   Schedule III. Contract with clients and disclosures.
22.   (1) The portfolio manager shall, before taking up an assignment of management of funds and portfolio  on  behalf  of  a  client,  enter  into  an  agreement  in  writing  with  such  client  that  clearly defines the inter se relationship and sets out their mutual rights, liabilities and obligations relating to management of portfolio containing the details as specified in Schedule IV.
(2) The agreement between the portfolio manager and the client shall, inter alia, include the following :- (a) (b) (c) the investment objectives and the services to be provided; period of the contract and provision of early termination, if any; investment approach, areas of investment and restrictions, if any, imposed by the client with regard to the investment in a particular company or industry; permissible  instruments  to  be  invested  in  by  the  portfolio  manager  for  the  customer, taking into account factors specific to clients and securities. type of instruments and proportion of exposure; tenure of portfolio investments; terms for early withdrawal of funds or securities by the clients; attendant risks involved in the management of the portfolio; amount to be invested subject to the restrictions provided under these regulations; procedure of settling client's account including form of repayment on maturity or early termination of contract; fees payable to the portfolio manager; the quantum and manner of fees payable by the client for each activity for which service is  rendered  by  the  portfolio  manager  directly  or  indirectly (where  such  service  is  out sourced); custody of securities; in case of a discretionary portfolio manager; a condition that the liability of a client shall not exceed his investment with the portfolio manager; (d) (e) (f) (g) (h) (i) (j) (k) (l) (m) (n) accounting terms, audit and furnishing of the reports to the clients as per the provisions of these regulations; and (o) other terms of portfolio investment subject to these regulations.
(3)  The  portfolio  manager  shall  provide  to  the  client,  the  Disclosure  Document  as  specified  in Schedule V, along with a certificate in Form C as specified in Schedule I, prior to entering into an agreement with the client as referred to in sub-regulation (1).
(4) The Disclosure Document, shall inter alia include the following :─ (a)  the  quantum  and  manner  of  payment  of  fees  payable  by  the  client  for  each  activity  for which  service  is  rendered  by  the  portfolio  manager  directly  or  indirectly  (where  such service is out sourced); (b)  portfolio risks including risk specific to each investment approach offered by the portfolio manager; (c)  complete disclosures of transactions with  related parties as per the accounting standards specified by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India; (d)  details of conflicts of interest related to services offered by group companies or associates of the portfolio manager; (e)  the performance of the portfolio manager: Provided  that  the  performance  of  a  discretionary  portfolio  manager  shall  be  calculated using  ‘Time Weighted Rate of Return’  for the immediately preceding three years and in such cases performance indicators shall also be disclosed: Provided  further  that  the  portfolio  manager  may  be  allowed  to  disclose  performance segregated on the basis of investment approach; (f) the  audited  financial  statements  of  the  portfolio  manager  for  the  immediately  preceding three years.
(5)  The  contents  of  the  Disclosure  Document  shall  be  certified  by  an  independent  chartered accountant.
(6)  The  portfolio  manager  shall  ensure that  a  copy  of  Disclosure  Document  is  available  on  the website of the portfolio manager at all times and as soon as the registration is granted.
(7) The portfolio manager shall file with the Board, a copy of the Disclosure Document after grant of certificate of registration  before circulating it to any client or whenever any material change including  change  in  the  investment  approach  is  effected.  The  portfolio  manager  shall  file  the disclosure document with the material change within 7 working days from the date of the change.
(8) The portfolio manager shall file disclosure document along with the certificate in Form C as specified in Schedule I.
(9) The portfolio manager shall disclose a change  in  the identity of  the Principal Officer to the Board and the clients within 7 working days of effecting the change.
(10) The portfolio manager shall report its performance uniformly in the disclosures to the Board, marketing materials and reports to the clients and on its website.
(11)  The  portfolio  manager  shall  charge  an  agreed  fee  from  the  clients  for  rendering  portfolio management services without guaranteeing or assuring, either directly or indirectly, any return and the fee so charged may be a fixed fee or a return based fee or a combination of both: Provided that no up-front fees shall be charged by the portfolio manager directly or in-directly to the clients.
(12)  The  portfolio  manager  shall  disclose  the  range  of  fees  charged  under  various  heads  in  the disclosure document. General responsibilities of a Portfolio Manager.
23.      (1)  The  discretionary  portfolio  manager  shall  individually  and  independently  manage  the funds of each client in accordance with the needs of the client, in a manner which does not partake character  of  a  Mutual Fund,  whereas  the  non-discretionary  portfolio  manager  shall  manage  the funds in accordance with the directions of the client.
(2) The portfolio manager shall not accept from the client, funds or securities worth less than fifty lakh rupees: Provided that the minimum investment amount per client shall be applicable for new clients and fresh investments by existing clients: Provided further that existing investments of clients, as on the date of notification of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020, may continue as such till maturity of the investment or as specified by the Board.
(3) The portfolio manager shall act in a fiduciary capacity with regard to the client's funds.
(4) The portfolio manager shall segregate each client’s holding in securities in separate accounts.
(5) The portfolio manager shall keep the funds of all clients in a separate account to be maintained by it in a Scheduled Commercial Bank. Bank’ means any bank included in the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934
(2 of 1934).
(6)  The  portfolio  manager  shall  transact  in  securities  within  the  limitation  placed  by  the  client himself with regard to dealing in securities under the provisions of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934).
(7) The portfolio manager shall not derive any direct or indirect benefit out of the client's funds or securities.
(8) The portfolio manager shall not borrow funds or securities on behalf of the client.
(9) The portfolio manager shall not lend securities held on behalf of the clients to a third person except as provided under these regulations.
(10) The portfolio manager shall ensure proper and timely handling of complaints from his clients and take appropriate action immediately.
(11) The portfolio manager shall ensure that any person or entity involved in the distribution of its services is carrying out the distribution activities in compliance with these regulations and circulars issued thereunder from time to time. Management or administration of clients' portfolio.
24.  (1) (a) The money or securities accepted by the portfolio manager shall not  be invested or managed  by  the  portfolio  manager  except  in  terms  of  the  agreement  between  the portfolio manager and the client. (b) Any renewal of portfolio on maturity of the initial period shall be deemed as a fresh placement.
(2)   Notwithstanding anything contained in the agreement referred to in regulation 22, the funds or securities can be withdrawn by the client before the maturity of the contract under the following circumstances, namely- (a)  voluntary or compulsory termination of portfolio management services by the portfolio manager or the client; (b)  suspension or cancellation of the certificate of registration of the portfolio manager by the Board; (c)  bankruptcy or liquidation of the portfolio manager.
(3) The discretionary portfolio manager shall invest funds of his clients in the securities listed or traded  on  a recognized  stock  exchange,  money  market  instruments,  units  of  Mutual  Funds  and other securities as specified by Board from time to time, on behalf of their clients. commercial paper, trade bill, treasury bills, certificate of deposit and usance bills.
(4) The portfolio manager offering non-discretionary or advisory services to clients may invest or provide advice for investment up to 25% of the assets under management of such clients in unlisted securities, in addition to the securities permitted for discretionary portfolio management.
(5) Portfolio Managers may invest in units of Mutual Funds only through direct plan.
(6) The portfolio manager while investing in units of Mutual Funds through direct plan shall not charge any kind of distribution related fees to the client.
(7)  The  portfolio  manager  shall  not  leverage  the  portfolio  of  its  clients  for  investment  in derivatives.
(8) The portfolio manager shall not deploy the clients' funds in bill discounting, badla financing or for the purpose of lending or placement with corporate or non-corporate bodies.
(9)  The  portfolio  manager  shall  not  invest  the  clients’  funds  in  the  portfolio  managed  or administered by another portfolio manager.
(10) The portfolio manager shall not invest client’s fund based on the advice of any other entity.
(11)  The  portfolio  manager  shall  not  while  dealing  with  clients’  funds  indulge  in  speculative transactions i.e, it shall not enter into any transaction for purchase or sale of any security which is periodically or ultimately settled otherwise than by actual delivery or transfer of security except the transactions in derivatives.
(12) The portfolio manager shall, ordinarily purchase or sell securities separately for each client. However, in the event of aggregation of purchases or sales for economy of scale, inter se allocation shall  be  done  on  a  pro  rata  basis  and  at  weighted  average  price  of  the  day's  transactions.  The portfolio manager shall not keep any open position in respect of allocation of sales or purchases effected in a day.
(13)  The portfolio manager shall not execute off market transfers in client’s account except: (a) for settlement of the clients’ own trades; (b)  for providing margin/ collateral for clients’ own positions; (c) for dealing in unlisted securities in accordance with the regulations; (d)  with specific consent of the client for each transaction; (e) for any other reason specified by the Board from time to time.
(14) The portfolio manager shall segregate each clients' funds and portfolio of securities and keep them separately from his own funds and securities and be responsible for safekeeping of clients' funds and securities.
(15) The portfolio manager shall not hold the securities belonging to the portfolio account, in its own name on behalf of its clients either by virtue of contract with clients or otherwise.
(16) The portfolio manager may, subject  to  authorization by the client in  writing, participate in securities lending. Foreign Portfolio Investor availing portfolio management services.
25.  Foreign portfolio investors may avail of the services of a portfolio manager. Appointment of custodian.
26.    Every  portfolio  manager  shall  appoint  a  custodian  in  respect  of  securities  managed  or administered by it: Provided that this regulation shall not apply to a portfolio manager who provides only advisory services. Maintenance of books of accounts, records, etc.
27.   (1) Every portfolio manager shall keep and maintain the following books of accounts, records and documents namely: - (a)  a copy of balance sheet at the end of each accounting period; (b) a copy of the profit and loss account for each accounting period; (c)  a copy of the auditor’s report on the accounts for each accounting period; (d) a statement of financial position and; (e)  records  in  support  of  every  investment  transaction  or  recommendation  which  will indicate the data, facts and opinion leading to that investment decision: Provided  that  such  a  record  shall  be  maintained  under  the  hands  of  the  Principal Officer of the portfolio manager.
(2)  Every  portfolio  manager  shall  intimate  to  the Board  the  place  where  the  books  of  accounts, records and documents are maintained.
(3) Without  prejudice to  sub-regulation  (1), every portfolio manager  shall, after the end of each accounting period, furnish to the Board copies of the balance sheet, profit and loss account and such other documents for the preceding five accounting years as and when required by the Board. Submission of net worth certificate.
28.    Every portfolio manager shall furnish to the Board a net worth certificate issued by a chartered accountant as and when required by the Board. Maintenance of books of accounts, records and other documents.
29.  The portfolio manager shall preserve the books of account and other records and documents mentioned under this chapter for a minimum period of five years. Accounts and audit.
30. (1)  (a) The portfolio manager shall maintain separate client-wise accounts. (b) The funds received from the clients, investments or disinvestments, all the credits to the account of the client like interest, dividend, bonus, or any other beneficial interest received on  the  investment  and  debits  for  expenses,  if  any,  shall  be  properly  accounted  for  and details thereof shall be properly reflected in the client's account. (c)  The tax deducted at  source as required under the provisions of the Income-Tax Act, 1961, (43 of 1961) shall be recorded in the portfolio account.
(2)  The books of account will be audited yearly by qualified auditor to ensure that the portfolio manager has followed proper accounting methods and procedures and that the portfolio manager has performed his duties in accordance with the law. A certificate to this effect shall, if so specified, be submitted to the Board within six months of close of portfolio manager's accounting period.
(3) The portfolio accounts of the portfolio manager shall be  audited annually by an independent chartered accountant and a copy of the certificate issued by the chartered accountant shall be given to the client.
(4) The client may appoint a chartered accountant to audit the books and accounts of the portfolio manager relating to his transactions and the portfolio manager shall co-operate with such chartered accountant in course of the audit. Reports to be furnished to the client.
31.      (1)  The  portfolio  manager  shall  furnish  periodically  a  report  to  the  client,  as  agreed  in  the contract, but not exceeding a period of three months and as and when required by the client and such report shall contain the following details, namely: - (a) the  composition  and  the  value  of  the  portfolio,  description  of  securities  and  goods, number of securities, value of each security held in the portfolio, units of goods, value of goods, cash balance and aggregate value of the portfolio as on the date of report; (b) (c) (d) (e) (f) transactions undertaken during the period of report including date of transaction and details of purchases and sales; beneficial interest received during that period in the form of interest, dividend, bonus shares, rights shares, etc; expenses incurred in managing the portfolio of the client; details of risk foreseen by the portfolio manager and the risk relating to the securities recommended by the portfolio manager for investment or disinvestment; default in payment of coupons or any other default in payments in the underlying debt security and downgrading to default rating by the rating agencies, if any; (g) details of commission paid to distributor(s) for the particular client.
(2)  The  report  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1)  may  be  made  available  on  the  website  of  the portfolio manager with restricted access to each client.
(3) On termination of the contract, the portfolio manager shall give a detailed statement of accounts to the client and settle the account with the client as agreed in the contract.
(4) The client shall have the right to obtain details of his portfolio from the portfolio managers. Report on steps taken on Auditor's report.
32.   The portfolio manager shall take steps to rectify the deficiencies made out in the auditor’s report within two months from the date of the auditor’s report as specified in sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 30. Disclosures to the Board.
33.      The  Board  may  ask  portfolio  manager  to  disclose  any  information  as  and  when  required including the following: - (a)  particulars regarding the management of a portfolio; (b)  any  change  in  the  information  or  particulars  previously  furnished,  which  have  a bearing on the certificate granted to him; (c)  the names of the clients whose portfolio it has managed; (d)  particulars relating to the net worth requirement as specified in regulation 9. Appointment of compliance officer.
34. (1) Every portfolio manager shall appoint a compliance officer who shall be responsible for monitoring the compliance of the Act, rules and regulations, notifications, guidelines, instructions etc., issued by the Board or the Central Government and for redressal of investors' grievances: Provided that the role of compliance officer shall not be assigned to the principal officer appointed in terms of clause (d) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 7 or the employee of the portfolio manager appointed in terms of clause (e) of sub-regulation (2) of       regulation 7.
(2)  The  compliance  officer  shall  immediately  and  independently  report  to  the  Board  any  non- compliance observed by him. CHAPTER V INSPECTION AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS Right of inspection by the Board.
35.   (1)  The  Board  may  appoint  one  or  more  persons  as  inspecting  authority  to  undertake the inspection of the books of account, records and documents of the portfolio manager for any of the purposes specified in sub-regulation (2).
(2)  The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) may be as follows: - (a) (b) to ensure that the books of account are being maintained in the manner required; to ensure that the provisions of the Act, rules and regulations are being complied with; (c) to investigate into the complaints received from investors, other portfolio managers or any  other  person  on  any  matter  having  a  bearing  on  the  activities  of  the  portfolio manager; and (d) to investigate suo motu in the interest of securities market or investors' interest into the affairs of the portfolio manager. Notice before inspection.
36.  (1) Before undertaking an inspection under regulation 35, the Board shall give a reasonable notice to the portfolio manager.
(2)  Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may by an order in writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the portfolio manager be taken up without such notice.
(3)  During the course of inspection the portfolio manager against whom an inspection is being carried out shall be bound to discharge his obligations as provided under regulation 37. Obligations of Portfolio Manager on inspection.
37.  (1) It shall be the duty of every director, partner, officer and employee of the portfolio manager who  is  being  inspected  to  produce  to  the  inspecting  authority  such  books,  accounts  and  other documents in his custody or control and furnish him with the statements and information relating to his activities as a portfolio manager within such time as the inspecting authority may require.
(2) The portfolio manager shall allow the inspecting authority to have a reasonable access to the premises occupied by such portfolio manager or by any other person, on his behalf and also extend reasonable  facility  for  examining  any  books,  records,  documents  and  computer  data  in  the possession of the portfolio manager or any such other person and also provide copies of documents or other material which in the opinion of the inspecting authority are relevant for the purposes of the inspection.
(3)  The  inspecting  authority  shall  in  the  course  of  inspection,  be  entitled  to  examine  or  record statements of any principal officer, director, partner and employee of the portfolio manager.
(4) It shall be the duty of every director, partner, officer or employee of the portfolio manager to give to the inspecting authority all assistance in connection with the inspection which the portfolio manager may reasonably be expected to give. Submission of report to the Board.
38. The inspecting authority shall, as soon as possible, submit an inspection report to the Board. Action on inspection or investigation report.
39. The Board or the Chairman shall after consideration of inspection or investigation report take such action as the Board or Chairman may deem fit and appropriate including action under Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008. Appointment of Auditor.
40.   The Board may appoint a qualified auditor to investigate into the books of account  or the affairs of the portfolio manager: Provided that the auditor so appointed shall have the same powers of the inspecting authority as are mentioned in regulation 35 and the obligation of the portfolio manager and his employees in regulation 37 shall be applicable to the investigation under this regulation. the expression "qualified auditor" shall have the same meaning as given to it under section 141 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013). CHAPTER VI PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT Liability for action in case of default.
41.  A portfolio manager who contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, rules or regulations framed  thereunder  shall  be  liable  for  one  or  more  action  specified  therein  including  the  action under  Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,
2008. Repeal and Savings.
42.  (1) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 1993, shall stand repealed from the date on which these regulations come into force.
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal, — (a) anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken including registration or  approval  granted,  fees  collected,  registration  or  approval,  suspended  or  cancelled,  any adjudication, enquiry or investigation commenced or show-cause notice issued under the repealed regulations,  prior  to  such  repeal,  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  done  or  taken  under  the corresponding provisions of these regulations; (b) any application made to  the Board under the repealed regulations, prior to  such  repeal,  and pending before it shall be deemed to have been made under the corresponding provisions of these regulations; (c) the  previous  operation  of  the  repealed  regulations  or  anything  duly  done  or suffered thereunder,  any  right,  privilege,  obligation  or  liability  acquired,  accrued  or  incurred  under  the repealed  regulations,  any  penalty,  incurred  in  respect  of  any  violation  committed  against  the repealed regulations, or any  investigation,  legal  proceeding  or  remedy  in  respect  of  any  such right,  privilege,    obligation,    liability,    penalty  as    aforesaid,  shall  remain  unaffected  as  if  the repealed regulations has never been repealed;
(3) After the repeal of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 1993, any reference thereto in any other regulations made, guidelines or circulars issued thereunder by  the  Board  shall  be  deemed  to   be  a reference to  the corresponding  provisions of these regulations. POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 1[CHAPTER VI-A Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
42A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new  products, processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  in  live  environment  of  regulatory  sandbox  in  the securities markets.
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board.] CHAPTER VII MISCELLANEOUS Power of the Board to issue clarifications.
3. (1)   On and from the commencement of these regulations, no person shall act as a      research analyst or research entity or hold itself out as a research analyst unless he has obtained a certificate of registration from the Board under these regulations: Provided that any person acting as research analyst or research entity before the commencement of these regulations may continue to do so for a period of six months from such commencement or, if it has made an application for a certificate of registration under sub-regulation (2) within the said period of six months, till the disposal of such application: Provided further that an investment adviser, credit rating agency, asset management company or fund manager, who issues research report or circulates/distributes research report to public or its director or employee who makes public appearance, shall not be required to seek registration under regulation 3, subject to compliance of Chapter III of these regulations.
(2)  An application for grant of certificate of registration shall be made in Form A as specified in the First Schedule to these regulations and shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee to be paid in the manner specified in Second Schedule. Issuance of research report by a person located outside India.
4. Any person located outside India engaged in issuance of research report or research analysis in respect  of  securities  listed  or  proposed  to  be  listed  on  a  stock  exchange  shall  enter  into  an agreement with a research analyst or research entity registered under these regulations. Furnishing of further information, clarification and personal representation.
5. (1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish further information or clarification for the purpose of consideration of the application filed under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3.
(2) The applicant or his authorised representative, if so required, shall appear before the Board for personal representation. Consideration of application and eligibility criteria.
6.  For the purpose of the grant of certificate the Board shall take into account all matters  which are relevant to the grant of certificate of registration and in particular the following, namely:- (i)  whether  the  applicant  is  an  individual  or  a  body  corporate  or  limited  liability partnership  firm; (ii)  whether in case the applicant is an individual, he is appropriately qualified and certified as specified in regulation 7; (iii)  whether in case the applicant is a body corporate, the individuals employed as  research analyst are qualified and certified as specified in regulation 7; (iv)  whether  in  case  the  applicant  is  a  partnership  firm  or  a  limited  liability  partnership, partners engaged in issuance of research report or research analysis are qualified and certified as specified in regulation 7; (v)  whether in case the applicant is a research entity, the individuals employed as  research analyst are qualified and certified as specified in regulation 7; (vi)  whether  the  applicant  fulfills  the  capital  adequacy  requirements  as  specified  in regulation 8; (vii)  whether  the  applicant,  individuals  employed  as  research  analyst  and  partners  of  the applicant,  if  any,    are  fit  and  proper  persons  based  on  the  criteria  as  specified  in Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; (viii) whether  the  applicant  has  the  necessary  infrastructure  to  effectively  discharge  the activities of research analyst; (ix)  whether the applicant or any person directly or indirectly connected with the applicant has in  the past  been refused  certificate by the Board and if so, the grounds for such refusal; (x)  whether any  disciplinary action has been taken by the Board or any other regulatory authority  against  the  applicant  or  any  person  directly  or  indirectly  connected  to  the applicant under the respective Act, rules or regulations made thereunder. Qualification and certification requirement.
7.(1)  An individual registered as research analyst under these regulations, individuals employed as  research  analyst  and  partners  of  a  research  analyst,  if  any,  engaged  in  preparation  and/or publication  of  research  report  or  research  analysis  shall  have  the  following  minimum qualifications, at all times: (i)  A professional qualification or post-graduate degree or post graduate diploma in finance, accountancy,  business  management,  commerce,  economics,  capital  market,  financial services or markets provided by: (a)  a university which is recognized by University Grants Commission or by any other commission/council/board/body established under an Act of Parliament in India for the purpose; or (b) an institute/association affiliated with such university; or (c)  an institute/  association/university established by  the central  government or state government; or (d) autonomous institute falling under administrative control of Government of India; or (ii)  professional  qualification  or  post-graduate  degree  or  post  graduate  diploma  which  is accredited  by  All  Indian  Council  for  Technical  Education,  National  Assessment  and Accreditation  Council  or  National  Board  of  Accreditation  or  any  other council/board/body set up under an Act of Parliament in India for the purpose; or (iii) a graduate in any discipline with an experience of at least five years in activities relating to financial products or markets or securities or fund or asset or portfolio management.
(2)  An individual registered as research analyst under these regulations, individuals employed as research  analyst  and  partners  of  a  research  analyst,  if  any,  shall  have,  at  all  times,  a  NISM certification for research analysts as specified by the Board or other certification recognized by the Board from time to time: Provided that research analyst or research entity already engaged in issuance of research report or research analysis seeking registration under these regulations shall ensure that it or the individuals employed by it as research analyst and/or its partners obtain such certification within two years from the date of commencement of these regulations: Provided  further  that  fresh  certification  must  be  obtained  before  expiry  of  the  validity  of  the existing certification to ensure continuity in compliance with certification requirements. Capital adequacy.
8. (1)  A research analyst  who is individual or partnership  firm shall have net  tangible assets of value not less than one lakh rupees.
(2)  A  research  analyst  who  is  body  corporate  or  limited  liability  partnership  firm  shall  have  a networth of not less than twenty five lakh rupees.
(3) All existing research analysts shall comply with the capital adequacy requirement within one year from the date of commencement of these regulations. up share capital plus free reserves (excluding reserves created out of revaluation) reduced by the aggregate value of accumulated losses. Grant of certificate of registration.
9.  The  Board  on  being  satisfied  that  the  applicant  complies  with  the  requirements  specified  in regulation 6, shall send intimation to the applicant and on receipt of the payment of registration fees  as  specified  in  Second  Schedule,  grant  certificate  of  registration  in  Form  B  under  First Schedule, subject to such terms and conditions as the Board may deem fit and appropriate. Period of validity of certificate.
10. The certificate of registration granted under regulation 9 shall be valid 1[till it is suspended or cancelled by the Board]. Renewal of certificate.
2[11. The research analyst who has already been granted certificate of registration by the Board, prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Research Analysts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 shall be deemed to have been granted a certificate of registration, subject to payment of fee, as prescribed in Schedule II of these regulations.] Procedure where registration is refused.
12. (1) After considering an application made under regulation 3, if the Board is of the opinion that a certificate should not be granted to the applicant, it may reject the application after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(2)  The  decision  of  the  Board  to  reject  the  application  shall  be  communicated  to  the  applicant within thirty days of such decision.
(3) Where an application for a certificate is rejected by the Board, the applicant  shall forthwith cease to act as a research analyst: Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall affect the liability of the applicant under the law. Conditions of certificate.
13.  The  certificate  granted  under  regulation  9  shall,  inter  alia,  be  subject  to  the  following conditions:- (i)  the research analyst shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations; (ii) the research analyst  shall forthwith inform  the Board in  writing, if any information  or particulars previously submitted to the Board are found to be false or misleading in any material particular or if there is any material change in the information already submitted; (iii)research analyst registered under these regulations shall use the term ‘research analyst’ in all correspondences with its clients. Recognition of body or body corporate for regulation of research analysts.
14. (1) The Board may recognize any body or body corporate for the purpose of regulating research analysts.
(2)  The  Board  may,  at  the  time  of  recognition  of  such  body  or  body  corporate,  delegate administration, supervision and regulation of research analysts to such body or body corporate on such terms and conditions as may be specified by the Board.
(3) The Board may specify that no person shall act as research analyst unless he is a member of a recognized body or body corporate and in such event, provisions of these regulations and bye-laws or articles of such body or body corporate shall apply mutatis mutandis to such research analyst. CHAPTER III MANAGEMENT OF CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS Establishing Internal policies and procedures.
15.  (1)  Research  analyst  or  research  entity  shall  have  written  internal  policies  and  control procedures governing the dealing and trading by any research analyst for: (i) addressing actual or potential conflict of interest arising from such dealings or trading of securities of subject company; (ii)  promoting  objective  and  reliable  research  that  reflects  the  unbiased  view  of  research analyst; and (iii) preventing the use of research report or research analysis to manipulate the securities market.
(2)  Research  analyst  or  research  entity  shall  have  in  place  appropriate  mechanisms  to  ensure independence of its research activities from its other business activities. Limitations on trading by research analysts.
16. (1) Personal trading activities of the individuals employed as research analyst by research entity shall  be  monitored,  recorded  and  whereever  necessary,  shall  be  subject  to  a  formal  approval process.
(2) Independent research analysts, individuals employed as research analyst by research entity  or their associates shall not deal or trade in securities that the research analyst recommends or follows within thirty days before and five  days after the publication of a research report.
(3) Independent research analysts, individuals employed as research analysts by research entity or their associates shall not deal or trade directly or indirectly in securities that he reviews in a manner contrary to his given recommendation.
(4) Independent research analysts, individuals employed as research analysts by research entity or their associate shall not purchase or receive securities of the issuer before the issuer's initial public offering, if the issuer is principally engaged in the same types of business as companies that the research analyst follows or recommends.
(5) Provisions of sub-regulations (2) to (4) shall apply mutatis mutandis to a research entity unless it  has  segregated  its  research  activities  from  all  other  activities  and  maintained  an  arms-length relationship between such activities.
(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulations (2) to (4), such restrictions to trade or deal  in  securities  may  not  apply  in  case  of  significant  news  or  event  concerning  the  subject company or based upon an unanticipated significant change in the personal financial circumstances of the research analyst, subject to prior written approval as per the terms specified in the approved internal policies and procedures. Compensation of research analysts.
17.  (1)  Research  entity  shall  not  pay  any  bonus,  salary  or  other  form  of  compensation  to  any individual  employed  as  research  analyst  that  is  determined  or  based  on  any  specific  merchant banking or investment banking or brokerage services transaction.
(2)  The  compensation  of  all  individuals  employed  as  research  analyst  shall  be  reviewed, documented  and  approved  annually  by  board  of  directors/committee  appointed  by  board  of directors of the research entity, which does not consist of representation from its merchant banking or investment banking or brokerage services divisions.
(3)  The  board  of  directors/committee  appointed  by  board  of  directors  of  the  research  entity approving or reviewing the compensation of individual employed as research analyst shall not take into account such individual’s contribution to the research entity's investment banking or merchant banking or brokerage services business.
(4)  An  individual  employed  as  research  analyst  by  research  entity  shall  not  be  subject  to  the supervision  or  control  of  any  employee  of  the  merchant  banking  or  investment  banking    or brokerage services divisions of that research entity. Limitations on publication of research report, public appearance and conduct of business, etc.
18. (1) Research analyst or research entity shall not publish or distribute research report or research analysis  or  make  public  appearance  regarding  a  subject  company  for  which  he  has  acted  as  a manager or co-manager at any time falling within a period of: (a)  Forty  days  immediately  following  the  day  on  which  the  securities  are  priced  if  the offering is an initial public offering; or (b) Ten days immediately following the day on which the securities are priced if the offering is a further public offering: Provided  that  research  analyst  or  research  entity  may  publish  or  distribute  research  report  or research analysis or make public appearance within such forty day and ten day periods, subject to prior written approval  of legal  or compliance personnel  as specified in the internal  policies and procedures.
(2)  A  research  entity  who  has  agreed  to  participate  or  is  participating  as  an  underwriter  of  an issuer's  initial  public  offering  shall  not  publish  or  distribute  a  research  report  or  make  public appearance regarding that issuer before expiry of twenty five days from the date of the offering. first date on which the security was offered to the public.
(3)  Research  analyst  or  research  entity  who  has  acted  as  a  manager  or  co-manager  of  public offering of securities of a company shall not publish or distribute a research report or make a public appearance concerning that company within fifteen days prior to date of entering into and fifteen days after the expiration/waiver/termination of a lock-up agreement or any other agreement that the  research  analyst  or  research  entity  has  entered  into  with  a  subject  company  that  restricts  or prohibits the sale of securities held by the subject company after the completion of public offering of securities: Provided  that  research  analyst  or  research  entity  may  publish  or  distribute  research  report  or research  analysis  or  make  public  appearance  regarding  that  company  within  such  fifteen  days subject  to  prior  written  approval  of  legal  or  compliance  personnel  as  specified  in  the  internal policies and procedures.
(4)  Research  analyst  or  individuals  employed  as  research  analyst  by  research  entity  shall  not participate in  business activities designed to  solicit investment  banking  or merchant  banking  or brokerage services business, such as sales pitches and deal road shows.
(5)  Research  analyst  or  individuals  employed  as  research  analyst  by  research  entity  shall  not engage  in  any  communication  with  a  current  or  prospective  client  in  the  presence  of  personnel from  investment  banking  or  merchant  banking  or  brokerage  services  divisions  or  company management about an investment banking services transaction.
(6) Investment banking or merchant banking or brokerage services division’s personnel of research entity shall not direct the individuals employed as research analyst to engage in sales or marketing related to an investment banking or merchant banking or brokerage services and shall not direct the research analyst  to  engage in  any communication  with  a current  or prospective client  about such division’s transaction: Provided that sub-regulations (4) to (6) shall not prohibit research analyst or research entity from engaging in investor education activities including publication of pre-deal research and briefing the views of the research analyst on the transaction to the sales or marketing personnel.
(7)  Research  analyst  or  research  entity  shall  have  adequate  documentary  basis,  supported  by research, for preparing a research report.
(8) Research analyst or research entity shall not provide any promise or assurance of favourable review in its research report to a company or industry or sector or group of companies or business group  as  consideration  to  commence  or  influence  a  business  relationship  or  for  the  receipt  of compensation or other benifits.
(9) Research analyst or research entity shall not issue a research report that is not consistent with the views of the individuals employed as research analyst regarding a subject company.
(10) Research  entity  shall ensure that the individuals employed as research analyst are separate from  other employees who are performing  sales trading, dealing, corporate finance advisory or any other activity that may affect the independence of its research report: Provided that the individual employed as research analyst by research entity can receive feedback from sales or trading personnel of brokerage division to ascertain the impact of research report. Disclosures in research reports.
19.  A  research  analyst  or  research  entity  shall  disclose  all  material  information  about  itself including  its  business  activity,  disciplinary  history,  the  terms  and  conditions  on  which it  offers research  report,  details  of  associates  and  such  other  information  as  is  necessary  to  take  an investment decision, including the following: (i)  Research analyst or research entity shall disclose the following in research report and in public appearance with regard to ownership and material conflicts of interest: (a)  whether the research analyst or research entity or his associate or his relative has any  financial  interest  in  the  subject  company  and  the  nature  of  such  financial interest; (b) whether the research analyst or research entity or its associates or relatives, have actual/beneficial  ownership  of  one  per  cent.  or  more  securities  of  the  subject company, at the end of the month immediately preceding the date of publication of the research report or date of the public appearance; (c)  whether the research analyst or research entity or his associate or his relative, has any  other  material  conflict  of  interest  at  the  time of  publication  of  the  research report or at the time of public appearance; (ii) Research analyst or research entity shall disclose the following in research report with regard to receipt of compensation: (a)  whether  it  or  its  associates  have  received  any  compensation  from  the  subject company in the past twelve months; (b) whether  it    or    its  associates  have  managed  or  co-managed  public  offering  of securities for the subject company in the past twelve months; (c)  whether  it  or  its  associates  have  received  any  compensation  for  investment banking or merchant banking or brokerage services from the subject company in the past twelve months; (d) whether  it  or  its  associates  have  received  any  compensation  for  products  or services other than investment banking or merchant banking or brokerage services from the subject company in the past twelve months; (e)  whether it or its associates have received any compensation or other benefits from the subject company or third party in connection with the research report. (iii)Research analyst or research entity shall disclose the following in public appearance with regard to receipt of compensation: (a)  whether  it  or  its  associates  have  received  any  compensation  from  the  subject company in the past twelve months; (b) whether the subject company is or was a client during twelve months preceding the date of distribution of the research report and the types of services provided: Provided that research analyst or research entity shall not be required to make a disclosure as per sub-clauses (c), (d) and (e)  of clause (ii) or sub-clauses (a) and (b)  of clause (iii) to the extent such disclosure would reveal material non-public information  regarding  specific  potential future  investment  banking  or  merchant banking or brokerage services transactions of the subject company. (iv) whether the research analyst has served as an officer, director or employee of the subject company; (v)  whether  the  research  analyst  or  research  entity  has  been  engaged  in  market  making activity for  the subject company; (vi)  Research analyst or research entity shall provide all other disclosures in research report and public appearance as specified by the Board under any other regulations. Contents of research report.
20. (1) Research analyst or research entity shall take steps to ensure that facts in its research reports are based on reliable information and shall define the terms used in making recommendations, and these terms shall be consistently used.
(2)  Research  analyst  or  research  entity  that  employs  a  rating  system  must  clearly  define  the meaning  of  each  such  rating  including  the  time  horizon  and    benchmarks  on  which  a  rating  is based.
(3) If a research report contains either a rating or price target for subject company’s securities and the research analyst or research entity has assigned a rating or price target to the securities for at least  one  year,  such  research  report  shall  also  provide  the  graph  of  daily  closing  price  of  such securities for the period assigned or for a three-year period, whichever is shorter. Recommendations in public media.
21.  (1)  Research  analyst  or  research  entity  including  its  director  or  employee  shall  disclose  the registration  status  and  details  of  financial  interest  in  the  subject  company,    if  he  makes  public appearance.
(2) If any person including a director or employee of an investment adviser or credit rating agency or  asset  management  company  or  fund  manager,  makes  public  appearance  or  makes  a recommendation or offers an opinion concerning securities or public offers through public media, all the provisions of regulations 16 and 17 shall apply mutatis mutandis to him and he shall disclose his name, registration status and details of financial interest in the subject company at the time of,- (i)  making such recommendation or offering such opinion in personal capacity; (ii) responding  to queries from audiences or journalists in personal capacity; (iii)communicating the research report or substance of the research report through the public media. Distribution of  research reports.
22. (1) A research report shall not be made available selectively to internal trading personnel or a particular  client  or  class  of  clients  in  advance  of  other  clients  who  are  entitled  to  receive  the research report.
(2) Research analyst or research entity who distributes any third party research report shall review the third party research report for any untrue statement of material fact or any false or misleading information.
(3) Research analyst or research entity who distributes any third party research report shall disclose any material conflict of interest of such third party research provider or he shall  provide a web address that directs a recipient to the relevant disclosures.
(4) Provisions of sub-regulations (2) and (3) shall not apply to a research analyst or research entity if he has no direct or indirect business or contractual relationship with such third party research provider. Additional disclosures by proxy adviser.
23. (1) All the provisions of Chapter II, III, IV, V and VI shall apply mutatis mutandis to the proxy adviser: Provided that the employees of proxy advisors engaged in providing proxy advisory services shall be required to have a minimum qualification of being a graduate in any discipline: Provided  further  that  certification  requirements  for  employees  of  proxy  advisors  engaged  in providing proxy advisory services shall be as specified by the Board: Provided  further  that  time  period  for  compliance  with  capital  adequacy  as  provided  in  sub- regulation (3) of regulation 8, for proxy advisors shall be three years.
(2) The proxy adviser shall additionally disclose the following: (i)  the  extent  of  research  involved  in  a  particular recommendation  and  the  extent  and/or effectiveness of its controls and procedures in ensuring the accuracy of issuer data; (ii)  policies  and  procedures  for  interacting  with  issuers,  informing  issuers  about  the recommendation and review of recommendations;
(3) Proxy adviser shall maintain the record of his voting recommendations and furnish the same to the Board on request.
(4)  In  case  of  any  inconsistency  or  difficulty  in  respect  of  applicability  of  provisions  of  these regulations to proxy advisers, the Board may issue such clarifications or exemptions as may be deemed appropriate. General responsibility.
24. (1) Research analyst or research entity shall maintain an arms-length relationship between its research activity and other activities.
(2)  Research  analyst  or  research  entity  shall  abide  by  Code  of  Conduct  as  specified  in  Third Schedule.
(3) In case of change in control of the research analyst or research entity, prior approval from the Board shall be taken.
(4) Research analyst or research entity shall furnish to the Board information and reports as may be specified by the Board from time to time.
(5)  It  shall  be  the  responsibility  of  the  research  analyst  or  research  entity  to  ensure  that  its employees  or  partners,  as  may  be  applicable,  comply  with  the  certification  and  qualification requirements under regulation 7 at all times. Maintenance of records.
25. (1) Research analyst or research entity shall maintain the following records: (i)  research report duly signed and dated; (ii) research recommendation provided; (iii)rationale for arriving at research recommendation; (iv) record of public appearance.
(2)  All  records  shall  be  maintained  either  in  physical  or  electronic  form  and  preserved  for  a minimum period of five years: Provided that where records are required to be duly signed and are maintained in electronic form, such records shall be digitally signed.
(3) Research analyst or research entity shall conduct annual audit in respect of compliance with these  regulations  from  a  member  of  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of  India  or  Institute  of Company Secretaries of India. Appointment of compliance officer.
26. Research analyst or research entity which is a body corporate or limited liability partnership firm shall appoint a compliance officer who shall be responsible for monitoring the compliance of the provisions of the Act, these regulations and circulars issued by the Board. CHAPTER IV INSPECTION Board’s right to inspect.
27. The  Board may suo  motu  or  upon  receipt  of  information  or  complaint  appoint  one  or  more persons  as  inspecting  authority  to  undertake  inspection  of  the  books  of  accounts,  records  and documents relating to research analyst or research entity for any of the following reasons, namely:- (i)  to ensure that the books of account, records and documents are being maintained in the manner specified in these regulations; (ii) to inspect into complaints received from any person, on any matter having a bearing on the activities of a research analyst; (iii)to  ascertain  whether  the  provisions  of  the  Act  and  these  regulations  are  being complied with by the research analyst or research entity; (iv) to inspect into the affairs of research analyst or research entity in relation to research activities, in the interest of the securities market or in the interest of investors. Notice before inspection.
28. (1) Before ordering an inspection under regulation 27, the Board shall give not less than seven days notice to research analyst or research entity.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may by an order in writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the research analyst or research entity be taken up without such notice.
(3) During the course of an inspection, the research analyst or research entity against whom the inspection is being carried out shall be bound to discharge its obligations as provided in regulation
29. Obligation of research analyst on inspection.
29.  (1)  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  research  analyst  or  research  entity  in  respect  of  whom  an inspection  has  been  ordered  under  the  regulation  27  and  any  other  associate  person  who  is  in possession  of relevant  information  pertaining  to conduct  and affairs of such  research analyst or research entity including their representative, if any, to produce to the inspecting authority such books,  accounts  and  other  documents  in  his  custody  or  control  and  furnish  him  with  such statements and information as the inspecting authority may require for the purposes of inspection.
(2) It shall be the duty of research analyst or research entity and any other associate person who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of the research analyst to give to the inspecting authority all such assistance and shall extend all such co-operation as may be required in connection with the inspection and shall furnish such information as sought by the inspecting authority in connection with the inspection.
(3) The inspecting authority shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to examine on oath and record the statement of any employee, director, partner or person responsible for or connected with  the  activities  of  research  analyst  or  research  entity  or  any  other  associate  person  having relevant information pertaining to such research analyst or research entity.
(4)  The  inspecting  authority  shall,  for  the  purposes  of  inspection,  have  power  to  obtain authenticated copies of documents, books, accounts of research analyst or research entity, from any person having control or custody of such documents, books or accounts. Submission of report to the Board.
30. The inspecting authority shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection submit an inspection report to the Board: Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, the inspecting authority may submit an interim report. Action on the inspection report.
31.  The  Board  may  after  consideration  of  the  inspection  report  and  after  giving  reasonable opportunity  of  hearing  to  research  analyst  or  research  entity  or  its  authorized  representatives, without prejudice to  any other action under the Act, issue such directions as it deems fit in  the interest of securities market or the investors including requiring research analyst or research entity not to provide research recommendation for a particular period; (i)  requiring  the  research  analyst  or  research  entity  to  refund  any  money  collected  as  fees, charges  or  commissions  or  otherwise  to  the  concerned  clients  along  with  the  requisite interest. (ii) prohibiting the research analyst or research entity from operating in the capital market or accessing the capital market for a specified period. CHAPTER V PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT Liability for action in case of default.
32. Research analyst or research entity who: (i) (ii) contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of  the  Act  or  any  regulations  or  circulars  issued thereunder; fails to furnish any information relating to its activity as a research analyst as required by the Board; (iii)  furnishes  to  the  Board  information  which  is  false  or  misleading  in  any  material particular; (iv)  does not submit periodic returns or reports as required by the Board; (v)  does not co-operate in any enquiry, inspection or investigation conducted by the Board; (vi)  fails to resolve the complaints or fails to give a satisfactory reply to the Board in this behalf, shall be dealt with in the manner provided under the Act or  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008. 3[CHAPTER V-A POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
32A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new  products, processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  in  live  environment  of  regulatory  sandbox  in  the securities markets.
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board.] CHAPTER VI MISCELLANEOUS Power of the Board to issue clarifications etc.
33. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of circulars. Power of the Board over body or body corporate recognized under regulation 14.
3.  An  Investigating  Authority,  having  reason  to  believe  that  any  or  all  of  the  grounds specified under sub-section (8) of section 11C  of the Act exist, may make a  request  in writing  in physical or electronic mode as per Form A of the Schedule to the Chairman for issuance of warrant of authority, specifying  therin the  grounds reasons for multiple execution, if required and the details of the  person or enterprise and its  building, place, vessel, vehicle or aircraft whose search is required to be authorised,. Warrant of authority.
4.  (1)  On  receipt  of  the    request  under  regulation  3,  the  Chairman  may,  after  being satisfied that it is necessary to do so, authorise the Investigating Authority or any other officer of the  Board as the authorised officer by  issuing a  warrant  of authority  as per 2 Form-B of the Schedule.
(2) The Chairman may  authorise multiple execution of the warrant of authority   during the period in which it is in force. Requirements for warrant of authority.
5. (1) A warrant of authority shall be signed and sealed by the Chairman.
(2)  Every  warrant  of  authority  issued  by  the  Chairman  shall  remain  in  force  until  it  is cancelled  by  the  Chairman  or  until  it  is  executed,  or  till  the  expiry  of  the  time  limit specified for execution in the warrant of authority, whichever is earlier
(3) A warrant of authority issued to more than one officer of the Board, may be executed by all or any one or more of them.
(4) A warrant of authority issued to any officer of the Board shall expire on the date of the order of the transfer of such officer. Return of warrant of authority.
6.  A  warrant  of  authority  issued  under  these  regulations  shall  be  returned  to  the Chairman,- (a) after being executed fully along with the seizure memo, or (b) if not executed, whether partially  or not, within the time authorised, if any, for its execution, on the expiry of such time. and  the  authorised  officer  shall  make  an  endorsement  on  the  warrant  of  authority stating as to the powers which have been exercised by him under such authority. PROCEDURE RELATING TO SEARCH AND SEIZURE CHAPTER III Witness.
7. Before making a search under this Chapter, the authorised officer shall call upon two or more independent and respectable inhabitants of the locality in which the place to be searched  is  situate  or  of  any  other  locality  if  no  such  inhabitant  of  the  said  locality  is available or is willing to be a witness to the search, to attend and witness the search and may issue an order in writing to them or any of them so to do: Provided that the authorised officer on reasonable steps taken by him to find witness, finds that no witness is available or willing to stand as witness and on recording of the same, shall execute the warrant of authority on the execution being video graphed, and the search and seizure shall not be invalid on the mere ground that no one has stood as witness for search; Provided  further  that  no  person  witnessing  the  search  shall  be  compelled  to  be  a witness in any quasi-judicial proceedings under the securities laws  except as and when summoned by the Board or the authority before whom such proceedings are pending. Search of places and buildings. 8 (1) If ingress into any, place or building cannot be so obtained or  no one is present in the    place  or  building      ,  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  authorised  officer    executing  the warrant  of  authority, to  enter such building or place  and search therein  and in  order to 3 effect an entrance into such building or place, to break open any outer or inner door or window  of  any  building  or  place,  whether  that  of  the  person  to  be  searched  or  of  any other person, if after notification of his authority and purpose and demand of admittance duly made, he cannot otherwise obtain admittance. Provided  that  if  any  such  building  or  place  is  an  apartment  in  actual  occupancy  of  a woman, who according to custom does not appear in public, the authorised officer shall, before  entering  such  apartment,  give  notice  to  such  woman  that  she  is  at  liberty  to withdraw  and  shall  afford  her  every  reasonable  facility  for  withdrawing  and  may  then break open any outer or inner door or window of the apartment and enter it.
(2)  The  authorised  officer  may  require  any  person  who  is  the  owner,  or  has  the immediate  possession,  or  control,  of  any  box,  locker,  safe,  almirah  or  any  other receptacle situate in such building, place to open the same and allow access to inspect or examine its contents, and, where the keys thereof are not available or where such person fails to comply with any such requirement, may cause any action to be taken including the  breaking  open  of  such  box,  locker,  safe,  almirah  or  other  receptacle  which  the Authorised  Officer  may  deem  necessary  for  carrying  out  all  or  any  of  the  purposes specified under the warrant of authority.
(3)  The  authorised  officer  may  require  any  person  who  is  the  owner,  or  has  the immediate possession, or control of such building or place, pending the commencement of the search, not to remove from such building or place, any article or other thing.
(4)  The  authorised  officer  may  requisition  the  services  of  any  police  officer  or  of  any officer of the Central Government or State Government or all of them, to assist him for all or any of the purposes specified in Warrant of Authority.
(5)  The  authorised  officer  may  search,  with  such  assistance,  as  may  be  required,  any building or place,  authorised to  be searched, where such information  or documents are expected or believed to be kept. Search of vessel, vehicle or aircraft.
9. (1) The authorised officer on production of the warrant of authority to any person in charge of vessel, vehicle or aircraft, authorised to be searched, shall have the free ingress to vessel, vehicle or aircraft for the purpose of execution of warrant of authority.
(2)  If  ingress  into  any  vessel,  vehicle  or  aircraft  authorised  to  be  searched  cannot  be obtained  because  such  vessel,  vehicle  or  aircraft  is  moving  or  for  any  other  reason,  it shall be lawful for the authorised officer  executing the warrant of authority, to require the person for the time being in control of the vehicle, vessel or aircraft to stop any such vessel  or  vehicle  or,  in  the  case  of  an  aircraft,  compel  it  to  stop  or  land,  and  when stopped  to  refrain  from  moving  it,  or  if  the  vehicle,  vessel  or  aircraft  is  already stationary,  to  refrain  from  moving  it,  and  search  any  part  of  the  vessel,  vehicle  or aircraft.
(3) The  authorised officer shall have  authority, in order to  effect  an entrance into such vessel, vehicle or aircraft, to break open any outer or inner door or window of any such vessel, vehicle or aircraft, if after notification of his authority and purpose and demand 4 of admittance duly made, he cannot otherwise obtain admittance: Provided  that  if  any  such  vessel,  vehicle  or  aircraft  is  occupied  by  a  woman,  who according  to  custom  does  not  appear  in  public,  the  authorised  officer  shall,  before entering such vessel, vehicle or aircraft, give notice to such woman that she is at liberty to withdraw and shall afford her every reasonable facility for withdrawing.
(4)  The  authorised  officer  may  require  any  person  who  is  the  owner,  or  has  the immediate  possession,  or  control,  of  any  box,  locker,  safe,    or  any  other  receptacle situate in such  vessel, vehicle or aircraft, to open the same and allow access to inspect or  examine  its  contents,  and  where  the  keys  thereof  are  not  available  or  where  such person  fails  to  comply  with  any  such  requirement,  may  cause  any  action  to  be  taken including  the  breaking  open  of  such  box,  locker,  safe  or  other  receptacle  which  the authorised  officer  may  deem  necessary  for  carrying  out  all  or  any  of  the  purposes specified in the warrant of authority.
(5) Where the search relates to a vehicle and the place where the authorised officer finds the vehicle is in the opinion of the authorised officer unsuitable for the search, it shall be lawful for the authorised officer to  require the person for the time being in control of the vehicle  forthwith  to  take  the  vehicle  or  cause  it  to  be  taken  to  a  place  which  the authorised officer considers suitable for the search and which he specifies and  require the person for the time being in control of such vehicle, to be in or on or to accompany the vehicle.
(6)  The authorised officer may require any person for the time being in control of the vehicle, vessel or aircraft, pending the commencement of the search, not to remove from the vehicle, vessel or aircraft, any article or other thing.
(7)  The  authorised  officer  may  requisition  the  services  of  any  police  officer  or  of  any officer of the Central Government, or State Government or all of them, to assist him for all or any of the purposes specified in Warrant of Authority.
(8)  The  authorised  officer  may  search,  with  such  assistance,  the  vessel,  vehicle  or aircraft authorized to be searched, where such information or documents are expected or believed to be kept. Search of persons.
10. (1) Any person who has got out of or is about to get into or is in the building, place, vessel, vehicle or aircraft authorised to be searched under the warrant of authority, if the authorised officer has reason to  suspect  that such person has secreted about  his  person any such books of account or other documents, may be searched; and if such person is a female,  the  search  shall  be  made  by  another  female  officer  so  authorised  with  strict regard to decency.
(2)  The  authorised  officer  may  requisition  the  services  of  any  police  officer  or  of  any officer of the Central Government or State Government or both  to assist him for all or any of the purposes specified in warrant of authority. 5 Search of computer.
11. (1) The authorised officer having authority to search any place or person, may,- (a) (b) (c) use  any  reasonable  measures  to  access  a  computer  system  or  other  data storage  device,  that  the  person  being  searched  is  carrying  or  that  is  in  the person’s physical possession or immediate control; operate  any  computer  or  other  data  storage  device  at  the  place  which  is being  searched  or  cause  any  such  computer  or  other  data  storage  device  to be operated by a person accompanying the authorised officer, and require any person at that place who appears to be an officer or person   in a position to facilitate access, to provide access to the information held in any such computer or other data storage device which can be accessed by the use of that computer or data storage device,- (i)  to give to the authorised officer any password necessary to operate it, or (ii)  otherwise to enable the authorised officer to examine the information accessible by the computer in a form in which the information is visible and legible.
1.  ‘computer’  includes  devices  mentioned  under  sub  clause  (iv)  of  clause  (e)  of  sub regulation(1) of regulation (2) of these regulations.
2.  'computer or other data storage device'  includes any other computer or data storage device,  whether  at  the  place  which  is  being  searched  or  at  any  other  place  which  is lawfully accessible by means of that computer. Power of inspection.
12.  The  authorised    officer    while    executing    the    warrant    of    authority,  if    so authorised,  shall  have  the  power  of  inspection  of  the  documents  found  in  any  place, building, vessel, vehicle and aircraft. Power of seizure.
13. The authorised officer while executing the warrant of authority, if authorised, shall have the power to seize any such books of account or other documents, found as a result of  such  search,  or,  get  the  signature  of  such  persons  under  clauses  (i)  and  (j)  of  sub regulation (2)  of regulation 14 of these regulations over such documents as applicable: Provided that the authorised officer may, where it is not practicable to seize any books of  account  or  documents,  serve  an  order  as  specified  in  Form-  C  or  Form-D  of  the Schedule,  as  the  case  may  be,  on  the  owner  or  the  person  who  is  in  immediate possession or control thereof that he shall not remove, part with or otherwise deal with it except  with  the  previous  permission  of  the  authorised  officer  and  such  persons  shall thereupon take such steps as may be necessary for ensuring compliance with the order. Seizure memo.
14. (1) An authorised officer executing the warrant of authority shall, in the presence of the person from whom or whose premises,vessel, vehicle or aircraft  the documents were seized,  if  such  person  is  available,  prepare  a  seizure  memo  in  Form  E  of  the  Schedule duly signed by two witnesses, containing a list of all documents seized or copied in the course of such search and of the places in which they were respectively found and verify the inventory of any such documents seized: 6 Provided  that  in  the  case  of  seizure  or  copying  of  electronic  storage  media  or  the seizure  or  copying  of  electronically  stored  information,  the  authorised  officer  shall enter in Form F  of the Schedule the description of the physical storage media that were seized or copied.
(2) The seizure memo shall contain the following details, as may be applicable: (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) (f) (g) (h) (i) (j) the time of entry into and exit from place, building, vessel, vehicle or aircraft; the identity of the persons searched; the  address  of  place  and  building  and  details  of  vessel,  vehicle  or aircraft  searched; the details of officers present, if any, at the time of seizure; the details of other persons present, if any, at the time of seizure; the signature of the authorised officer; the signature of the witnesses  with thump impression and date; the  description  of  identification  mark,  if  any,  placed  by  any  person from whose possession or control the documents are seized; the  signature  of  the  owner  or  the  person  who  is  in  immediate possession  or  control  of  premises,  building,  vehicle,  vessel  or aircraft, if available therein; the signature of the persons from whom the seizure is effected. Power to place identification mark.
15. The authorised officer while executing the warrant of authority, if authorised, shall have  the  power  to  place  mark  of  identification  on  any  books  of  account  or  other documents: Provided  that  any  person  from  whose  possession  or  control  the  document  is  seized shall be permitted to put his own identification mark on the documents seized: Provided  further  that  the  description  of  such  identification  mark  shall  be  recorded  in the seizure memo. Power to make copy.
16. The authorised officer while executing the warrant of authority  shall have the power to make or cause to be made extracts or copy of documents or any books of account. Power to record statement.
17.  (1)  The  authorised  officer  while  executing  the  warrant  of  authority    shall  have  the power to record on oath the statement of any person who is found to be in possession or in control of the information or documents referred to in sub clauses (i), (iii) or (iv) of sub-section (8) of section 11C of the Act: Provided  that  on  the  refusal  to  take  oath  by  such  persons,  the  statement  maybe recorded,  on  recording  such  refusal  in  the  statement  duly  singed  by  the  authorised officer. Provided  further  that  no  police  officer  requisitioned  shall  be  permitted  at  the  time  of recording of statement.
(2)  The  authorised  officer  shall  record  the  statement    in  the  presence  of  two  witnesses 7 whose signatures shall be appended to the statement so recorded: Provided that the authorised officer on reasonable steps taken by him to find witness, finds that  no witness  is  available  or  willing  to  stand  as  witness  and on noting the same,  shall  record  the  statement,  on  the  same  being  vediographed,  and  the  statement shall  not  be  invalid  on  the  mere  ground  that  no  one  has  stood  as  witness  for  the recording of the statement. General obligations on execution of warrant of authority.
18.  (1) The authorised officer before executing the warrant of authority, shall,- (a) (b) identify  himself  or  herself  either  by  name  or  by  official  identification documents; show the warrant of authority to  the person who occupies the premises or  to any person in charge of vessel, vehicle or aircraft authorised to be searched and on request provide copy of such warrant of authority: (c) (d) Provided if such person is not present a copy of the warrant shall be pasted in a prominent  place  on  the  premises,  vessel,  vehicle  or  aircraft  authorised  to  be searched; conduct search and seizure if any, in the presence of the witnesses and prepare panchnama as prescribed in Form-G of the Schedule if witnesses are available. deliver a copy of the seizure memo prepared under regulation 14  to any person from whose possession or  control  the documents are seized;
(2) The authorised officer executing the warrant of authority, shall not enter at any place of business or profession after daytime. Provided that the warrant of authority may continue to be executed after day time,  if the entry of the authorised officer is at day time. Provided  further  that  in  respect  of  any  other  dwelling  place,  wherein  the  books  of account,  other  documents  have  been  stated  or  believed  to  be  kept,  the  search  shall  be initiated, resumed and completed only in daytime, unless authorised to the contrary: Provided further  that  in  respect  of  vessel,  vehicle  or  aircraft  or  any  building or place  other  than  the  dwelling  place,    wherein  the  books  of  account,  other  documents have been stated or believed to be kept, the search can be initiated and continued at any time.
(3)  The  authorised  officer  shall  execute  the  warrant  of  authority  within  the  time  limit, prescribed, if any, in the warrant of authority: Provided  that  the  authorised  officer  may  seek  extension  of  time  on  reasons  to  be recorded in writing from the Chairman. 8 CHAPTER IV RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF PERSONS BEING SEARCHED AND OTHER PERSONS IN CHARGE Rights of persons under search and persons in charge.
19.  The  occupant  of  the  building,  place,  vessel,  vehicle  or  aircraft  searched,  including the person in charge of such vessel, vehicle or aircraft, shall have the right,- (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) to  see  the  warrant  of  authority  and  authorised  officer  and  to  obtain  a  copy thereof; to verify the identity of the authorised officer and officials assisting him; to be present  during the search and seizure; to  put  his  own  mark  of  identification  on  the  documents  seized  along  with  his signature, stamp,seal etc. to have copy of document seized or take extracts therefrom, in the presence of the  authorised  officer  or  any  other  person  authorised  by  him  in  this  behalf,  at such  place  and  reasonable  time  as  the  authorised  officer  may  appoint  in  this behalf; to have a copy of any statement recorded during search and seizure; (f) Obligations of persons under search and persons in charge.
20. (1) Any person in charge of or in any building, place, authorised to be searched shall, on demand by the authorised officer to execute warrant of authority and on production of the authority, identify any person  as may be required by the authorised officer.
(2) Any person in charge of or in any vessel, vehicle or aircraft authorised to be searched shall,  on  demand  by  the  authorised  officer,  locate  and  identify  the  vessel,  vehicle  or aircraft.
(3)  Any  person  in  charge  of  or  in  any  building,  place,  vessel,  vehicle  or  aircraft authorised to be searched shall, on demand by the authorised officer to execute a warrant of  authority  and  on  production  of  such  authority,  allow  him  free  ingress  thereto  and afford all reasonable facilities for a search therein.
(4)  Any  person  who  has  the  immediate  control  of  any  vessel,  vehicle  or  aircraft authorised to  be searched, if moving, shall stop  any such vessel  or vehicle or stop  and cause  to  be  landed  any  such  aircraft  on  communication  of  the  authority  of  authorised officer to search and seize.
(5) Any person in charge of the business or person in charge of electronic records shall be bound to disclose the password and such other information  as may  be asked for by the authorised officer.
(6) Any person who is found to be in possession or control of any books of account or other  documents,  maintained  in  the  form  of  electronic  record,  shall  provide  the authorised  officer  the  necessary  facility  to  inspect  such  books  of  account  or  other documents.
(7) Any person who is the owner or has the immediate possession or control of any box, locker,  safe,  almirah  or  any  other  receptacle  situate  in  such  building,  place,  vessel, 9 vehicle or aircraft authorised for search, shall identify such receptacles in  which assets or books of account and documents are kept and to hand over keys of such receptacles to the authorised officer.
(8)  No  person  shall  prevent  any  authorised  officer  or  any  officers  assisting  him  from execution of warrant of authority. CHAPTER V SAFE CUSTODY AND RETURN OF DOCUMENTS Safe custody of seized documents.
21. (1) The documents seized shall be transmited in safe manner to the place of custody.
(2)  The  authorised  officer  who  is  not  the  Investigating  Authority,  shall  hand  over  the documents seized along with the seizure memo to the Investigating Authority.
(3) The Investigating  Authority  shall  keep  in  his custody the books, registers, other documents and records seized under these regulations for such period not later than the conclusion of the investigation as he considers necessary. Provided that such books, registers, other documents and records shall not  be retained by  the Investigating Authority for a period exceeding one hundred and eighty days from the date of seizure, except with the approval of the Chairman.
(4)  The  authorised  officer  or  the  Investigating  Authority,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall ensure that records in physical form are not altered, damaged, mutilated, and the records in electronic form is not altered or erased.
(5)  The  authorised  officer  or  the  Investigating  Authority,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall ensure  that  the  physical  documents  and  electronic  storage  devices  on  which  electronic records  are  stored,  are  maintained  and  stored  in  suitable  physical  and  environmental conditions. Return of documents.
22.(1) The  Investigating Authority shall return the  documents kept under regulation 21 to  the  company  or  the  other  body  corporate,  or,  as  the  case  may  be,  to  the  managing director or the manager or any other person from whose  or custody or power they were seized: Provided that the Investigating Authority may, before returning such books, registers, other documents and record as aforesaid, place identification mark on them or any part thereof.
(2)  Any  personal  information  severable  from  any  document  seized  and  kept  in accordance with these regulations shall be returned by the Investigating Authority to the person to whom such information relates on a written request being made in this behalf by him. Protection of personal information.
23. The personal information contained in any document seized and kept in accordance with  these  regulations  shall  not  be  divulged  to  any  third  person,  except  for  the 10 compliance of any law for the time being in force, without the consent of the person to whom the information relates. Retention of forensic copy.
24. Notwithstanding anything contained in regulation 22 of these regulations, - (a)    the  forensic copy  of the data or mirror image of the storage device  and any  copy thereof      may  be  retained,    on  being  satisfied  that  such  data  or  image  has  evidentiary value. (b)  any  copy made or generated from any other documents seized in accordance with these regulations  may be retained. CHAPTER VI MISCELLANEOUS Liability for non-compliance of obligations.
25. Without prejudice to any action under any law for the time being in force, (a)  any intermediary who fails to comply with any of the obligations while execution of warrant of authority, shall be liable for any one or more of the following actions: i. ii. iii. adjudication under section 15HB of the Act; proceedings under Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; prosecution under section 24 of the Act; (b)  any  person  other  than  an  intermediary  who  fails  to  comply  with  any  of  the obligations while execution of warrant of authority, shall be liable for any one or more of the following actions: i. ii. iii. adjudication under section 15HB of the Act; action under section 11B and sub-section (4) of section 11 of the Act; prosecution under section 24 of the Act. Power to remove difficulties.
4. Unless otherwise provided in this Chapter, an issuer making an initial public offer of specified securities  shall  satisfy  the  conditions  of  this  Chapter  as  on  the  date  of  filing  of  the  draft  offer document  with  the  Board  and  also  as  on  the  date  of    11[filing]  the  offer  document  with  the Registrar of Companies. Entities not eligible to make an initial public offer
5. (1) An issuer shall not be eligible to make an initial public offer - (a)  if the issuer, any of its promoters, promoter group or directors or selling shareholders are debarred from accessing the capital market by the Board. (b) if  any  of  the  promoters  or  directors  of  the  issuer  is  a  promoter  or  director  of  any  other company which is debarred from accessing the capital market by the Board. (c)  if the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a wilful defaulter. (d) if any of its promoters or directors is a fugitive economic offender. mentioned  therein,  who  were  debarred  in  the  past  by  the  Board  and  the  period  of  debarment  is already over as on the date of filing of the draft offer document with the Board.
(2)  An  issuer  shall  not  be  eligible  to  make  an  initial  public  offer  if  there  are  any  outstanding convertible securities or any other right which would entitle any person with any option to receive equity shares of the issuer: Provided that the provisions of this sub-regulation shall not apply to: (a)  outstanding options granted to employees, whether currently an employee or not, pursuant to  an  employee  stock  option  scheme  in  compliance  with  the  Companies  Act,  2013,  the relevant  Guidance  Note  or  accounting  standards,  if  any,  issued  by  the  Institute  of Chartered Accountants of India or pursuant to the Companies Act, 2013, in this regard; (b) fully paid-up outstanding convertible securities which are  required to  be converted on or before the date of filing of the red herring prospectus (in case of book-built issues) or the prospectus (in case of fixed price issues), as the case may be. Eligibility requirements for an initial public offer
6. (1) An issuer shall be eligible to make an initial public offer only if: a) it  has  net  tangible  assets  of  at  least  three  crore  rupees,  calculated  on  a  restated  and consolidated  basis,  in  each  of  the  preceding  three  full  years  (of  twelve  months  each),  of which not more than fifty per cent. are held in monetary assets: Provided  that  if  more  than  fifty  per  cent.  of  the  net  tangible  assets  are  held  in  monetary assets, the issuer has utilised or made  firm  commitments to  utilise such excess  monetary assets in its business or project; Provided further that the limit of fifty per cent. on monetary assets shall not be applicable in case the initial public offer is made entirely through an offer for sale. b) it has an average operating profit of at least  fifteen crore rupees, calculated on a restated and  consolidated  basis,  during  the  preceding  three  years  (of  twelve  months  each),  with operating profit in each of these preceding three years; c) it has a net worth of at least one crore rupees in each of the preceding three full years (of twelve months each), calculated on a restated and consolidated basis; d) if it has changed its name within the last one  year, at least fifty per cent.  of the revenue, calculated  on  a  restated  and  consolidated  basis,  for  the  preceding  one  full  year  has  been earned by it from the activity indicated by its new name.
(2)   An  issuer  not  satisfying  the  condition  stipulated  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  eligible  to make an initial public offer only if the issue is made through the book-building process and the  issuer  undertakes  to  allot  at  least  seventy  five  per  cent.  of  the  net  offer  to  qualified institutional buyers and to refund the full subscription money if it fails to do so.
12[(3) If an issuer has issued SR equity shares to its promoters/ founders, the said issuer shall be allowed  to  do  an  initial  public  offer  of  only  ordinary  shares  for  listing  on  the  Main  Board subject to compliance with the provisions of this Chapter and these clauses - i. the  issuer  shall  be  intensive  in  the  use  of  technology,  information technology,  intellectual  property,  data  analytics,  bio-technology  or nano-technology  to  provide  products,  services  or  business  platforms with substantial value addition. ii. the  SR  shareholder  shall  not  be  part  of  the  promoter  group  whose collective net worth is more than rupees 500 crores: the  collective  net  worth, the investment of SR shareholder in the shares of the issuer company shall not be considered. iii.  The SR shares were issued only to the promoters/ founders who hold an executive position in the issuer company; iv.  The  issue  of  SR  equity  shares  had  been  authorized  by  a  special resolution passed at a general meeting of the shareholders of the issuer, where the notice calling for such general meeting specifically provided for - a. b. c. d. the size of issue of SR equity shares, ratio  of  voting  rights  of  SR  equity  shares  vis-à-vis  the ordinary shares, rights as to differential dividends, if any sunset  provisions,  which  provide  for  a  time  frame  for  the validity of such SR equity shares, e. matters in respect of which the SR equity shares would have the same voting right as that of the ordinary shares, v.  The SR equity shares have been held for a period of atleast 6 months prior to the filing of the red herring prospectus; vi.  The  SR  equity  shares  shall  have  voting  rights  in  the  ratio  of  a minimum of 2:1 upto a maximum of 10:1 compared to ordinary shares and such ratio shall be in whole numbers only; vii.  The  SR  equity  shares  shall  have  the  same  face  value  as  the  ordinary shares; viii.  The issuer shall only have one class of SR equity shares; ix.  The SR equity shares shall be equivalent  to ordinary equity shares in all respects, except for having superior voting rights.] General conditions
7. (1) An issuer making an initial public offer shall ensure that: a)  it has made an application to one or more stock exchanges to seek an in-principle approval for listing of its specified securities on such stock exchanges and has chosen one of them as the designated stock exchange, in terms of Schedule XIX; b)  it  has  entered  into  an  agreement  with  a  depository  for  dematerialisation  of  the  specified securities already issued and proposed to be issued; c)  all its specified securities held by the promoters are in dematerialised form prior to filing of the offer document; d)  all  its  existing  partly  paid-up  equity  shares  have  either  been  fully  paid-up  or  have  been forfeited; 15 e)  it  has  made  firm  arrangements  of  finance  through  verifiable  means  towards  seventy  five per cent. of the stated means of finance for a specific project proposed to be funded from the issue proceeds, excluding the amount to be raised through the proposed public issue or through existing identifiable internal accruals.
(2) The amount for  general  corporate purposes, as mentioned in  objects  of the issue in  the draft offer document and the offer document shall not exceed twenty five per cent. of the amount being raised by the issuer. (I) “project” means the object for which monies are proposed to be raised to cover the objects of the issue; (II) In case of an issuer which had been a partnership firm or a limited liability partnership, the track  record  of  operating  profit  of  the  partnership  firm  or  the  limited  liability  partnership shall be considered only if the financial statements of the partnership business for the period during which the issuer was a partnership firm or a limited liability partnership, conform to and are revised in the format prescribed for companies under the Companies Act, 2013 and also comply with the following: (a)  adequate disclosures are made in the financial statements as required to be made by the issuer as per schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013; (b) the financial statements are duly certified by the statutory auditor stating that: (i) the  accounts  and  the  disclosures  made  are  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013; (ii)  the applicable accounting standards have been followed; (iii) the financial statements present a true and fair view of the firm’s accounts; (III)  In  case  of  an  issuer  formed  out  of  a  division  of  an  existing  company,  the  track  record  of distributable  profits  of  the  division  spun-off  shall  be  considered  only  if  the  requirements regarding  financial  statements  as  provided  for  partnership  firms  or  limited  liability Additional conditions for an offer for sale
8.  Only such fully paid-up equity shares may be offered for sale to the public, which have been held by the sellers for a period of at least one year prior to the filing of the draft offer document: Provided  that  in  case  the  equity  shares  received  on  conversion  or  exchange  of  fully  paid-up compulsorily  convertible  securities  including  depository  receipts  are  being  offered  for  sale,  the holding  period  of  such  convertible  securities,  including  depository  receipts,  as  well  as  that  of 16 resultant  equity  shares  together  shall  be  considered  for  the  purpose  of  calculation  of  one  year period referred in this sub-regulation. Provided further that such holding period of one year shall be required to be complied with at the time of filing of the draft offer document. compulsorily convertible securities are being offered for sale, the conversion or exchange should be completed prior to filing of the offer document (i.e. red herring prospectus in the case of a book built issue and prospectus in the case of a fixed price issue), provided full disclosures of the terms of conversion or exchange are made in the draft offer document. Provided further that the requirement of holding equity shares for a period of one  year shall not apply: a)  in case of an offer for sale of a government company or statutory authority or corporation or any  special  purpose  vehicle  set  up  and  controlled  by  any  one  or  more  of  them,  which  is engaged in the infrastructure sector; b)  if the equity shares offered for sale were acquired pursuant to any scheme approved by a High Court under the sections 391 to 394 of Companies Act, 1956, or approved by a tribunal or the Central Government under the sections 230 to 234 of Companies Act, 2013, as applicable, in lieu of business and invested capital which had been in existence for a period of more than one year prior to approval of such scheme; c)  if the equity shares offered for sale were issued  under  a bonus issue on securities held  for a period of at least one  year prior to the filing of the  draft offer document with the Board and further subject to the following: (i)  such specified securities being issued out  of free reserves  and share  premium  existing in the  books  of  account  as  at  the  end  of  the  financial  year  preceding  the  financial  year  in which the draft offer document is filed with the Board; and (ii) such  equity  shares  not  being  issued  by  utilisation  of  revaluation  reserves  or  unrealized profits of the issuer. PART II: ISSUE OF CONVERTIBLE DEBT INSTRUMENTS AND WARRANTS Eligibility requirements for issue of convertible debt instruments
9.   An issuer shall be eligible to make an initial public offer of convertible debt instruments even without making a prior public issue of its equity shares and listing thereof. Provided  that  it  is  not  in  default  of  payment  of  interest  or  repayment  of  principal  amount  in respect of debt instruments issued by it to the public, if any, for a period of more than six months. 17 Additional requirements for issue of convertible debt instruments
10.  (1)    In  addition  to  other  requirements  laid  down  in  these  regulations,  an  issuer  making  an initial  public  offer  of  convertible  debt  instruments  shall  also  comply  with  the  following conditions: (a) (b) it has obtained credit rating from at least one credit rating agency; it  has  appointed  at  least  one  debenture  trustee  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the Companies Act, 2013 and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993; (c) it  shall  create  a  debenture  redemption  reserve  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder; (d) if  the  issuer  proposes  to  create  a  charge  or  security  on  its  assets  in  respect  of  secured convertible debt instruments, it shall ensure that: (i) such assets are sufficient to discharge the principal amount at all times; (ii)  such assets are free from any encumbrance; (iii)  where  security  is  already  created  on  such  assets  in  favour  of  any  existing  lender  or security trustee or the issue of convertible debt instruments is proposed to be secured by creation of security on a leasehold land, the consent of such lender or security trustee or lessor  for  a  second  or  pari  passu  charge  has  been  obtained  and  submitted  to  the debenture trustee before the opening of the issue; (iv)  the security or asset cover shall be arrived at after reduction of the liabilities having a first or prior charge, in case the convertible debt instruments are secured by a second or subsequent charge. The issuer shall redeem the convertible debt instruments in terms of the offer document.
(2) Conversion of optionally convertible debt instruments into equity shares
11. (1)  The issuer shall not convert its optionally convertible debt instruments into equity shares unless  the  holders  of  such  convertible  debt  instruments  have  sent  their  positive  consent  to  the issuer  and  non-receipt  of  reply  to  any  notice  sent  by  the  issuer  for  this  purpose  shall  not  be construed as consent for conversion of any convertible debt instruments.
(2) Where the value of the convertible portion of any listed convertible  debt  instruments  issued by  an  issuer  exceeds  ten  crore  rupees  and  the  issuer  has  not  determined  the  conversion  price  of such convertible debt instruments at the time of making the issue, the holders of such convertible debt  instruments  shall  be  given  the  option  of  not  converting  the  convertible  portion  into  equity shares: 18 Provided  that  where  the  upper  limit  on  the  price  of  such  convertible  debt  instruments  and justification thereon is determined and disclosed to the investors at the time of making the issue, it shall not  be necessary to give such option to  the  holders of the  convertible debt instruments  for converting the convertible portion into equity share capital within the said upper limit.
(3) Where an option is to be given to the holders of the convertible debt instruments in terms of sub-regulation  (2)  and  if  one  or  more  of  such  holders  do  not  exercise  the  option  to  convert  the instruments  into  equity  share  capital  at  a  price  determined  in  the  general  meeting  of  the shareholders, the issuer shall redeem that part of the instruments within one month from the last date by which option is to be exercised, at a price which shall not be less than its face value.
(4)  The provision of sub-regulation (2) shall not apply if such redemption is as per the disclosures made in the offer document. Issue of convertible debt instruments for financing
12.  An issuer shall not issue convertible debt instruments for financing or for providing loans to or for acquiring shares of any person who is part of the promoter group or group companies: Provided  that  an  issuer  shall  be  eligible  to  issue  fully  convertible  debt  instruments  for  these purposes if the period of conversion of such debt instruments is less than eighteen months from the date of issue of such debt instruments. Issue of warrants
13.  An issuer shall be eligible to issue warrants in an initial public offer subject to the following: a)  the tenure of such warrants shall not exceed eighteen months from the date of their allotment in the initial public offer; b)  a  specified security may have one or more warrants attached to it; c)  the  price  or  formula  for  determination  of  exercise  price  of  the  warrants  shall  be  determined upfront  and  disclosed  in  the  offer  document  and  at  least  twenty-five  per  cent.  of  the consideration amount based on the exercise price shall also be received upfront; Provided  that  in  case  the  exercise  price  of  warrants  is  based  on  a  formula,  twenty-five  per cent. consideration amount based on the cap price of the price band determined for the linked equity shares or convertible securities shall be received upfront. d)  in case the warrant holder does not exercise the option to take equity shares against any of the warrants  held  by    the  warrant  holder,  within  three  months  from  the  date  of  payment  of consideration,  such  consideration  made  in  respect  of  such  warrants  shall  be  forfeited  by  the issuer. 19 PART III:  PROMOTERS’ CONTRIBUTION Minimum promoters’ contribution
14. (1)  The promoters of the issuer shall hold at least twenty per cent. of the post-issue capital: Provided  that  in  case  the  post-issue  shareholding  of  the  promoters  is  less  than  twenty  per  cent., alternative investment  funds or foreign venture  capital  investors or scheduled commercial banks or public financial institutions or insurance companies registered with  Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India may contribute to meet the shortfall in minimum contribution as specified for the promoters, subject to a maximum of ten per cent. of the post-issue capital without being identified as promoter(s). Provided further that the requirement of minimum promoters’ contribution shall not apply in case an issuer does not have any identifiable promoter.
(2) The minimum promoters’ contribution shall be as follows: a)  the  promoters  shall  contribute  twenty  per  cent.  as  stipulated  in  sub-regulation  (1),  as  the case may be, either by way of equity shares13[, including SR equity shares held, if any,] or by way of subscription to convertible securities: Provided  that  if  the  price  of  the  equity  shares  allotted  pursuant  to  conversion  is  not pre-determined and not disclosed in the offer document, the promoters shall contribute only  by  way  of  subscription  to  the  convertible  securities  being  issued  in  the  public issue  and  shall  undertake  in  writing  to  subscribe  to  the  equity  shares  pursuant  to conversion of such securities. b)  in case of any issue of convertible securities which are convertible or exchangeable on different  dates  and  if  the  promoters’  contribution  is  by  way  of  equity  shares (conversion price being pre-determined), such contribution shall not be at a price lower than the weighted average price of the equity share capital arising out of conversion of such securities. c)  subject to the provisions of clause (a) and (b) above, in case of an initial public offer of convertible  debt  instruments  without  a  prior  public  issue  of  equity  shares,  the promoters shall bring in a contribution of at least twenty per cent. of the project cost in the form of equity shares, subject to contributing at least twenty per cent. of the issue size from their own funds in the form of equity shares: Provided  that  if  the  project  is  to  be  implemented  in  stages,  the  promoters’ contribution  shall be with  respect  to  total  equity  participation  till the respective stage vis-à-vis the debt raised or proposed to be raised through the public issue.
(3) The promoters shall satisfy the requirements of this regulation at least one day prior to the date of opening of the issue.
(4)    In  case  the  promoters  have  to  subscribe  to  equity  shares  or  convertible  securities  towards minimum  promoters’  contribution,  the  amount  of  promoters’  contribution  shall  be  kept  in  an escrow  account  with  a  scheduled  commercial  bank,  which  shall  be  released  to  the  issuer  along with the release of the issue proceeds: Provided  that  where  the  promoters’  contribution  has  already  been  brought  in  and  utilised,  the issuer shall give the cash flow statement disclosing the use of such funds in the offer document; Provided further that where the minimum promoters’ contribution is more than one hundred crore rupees and the initial public offer is for partly paid shares, the promoters shall bring in at least one hundred  crore  rupees  before  the  date  of  opening  of  the  issue  and  the  remaining  amount  may  be brought on a pro-rata basis before the calls are made to the public. (I)  Promoters’ contribution shall be computed on the basis of the post-issue expanded capital: (a)  assuming full proposed conversion of convertible securities into equity shares; (b)  assuming  exercise  of  all  vested  options,  where  any  employee  stock  options  are outstanding at  the time  of initial  public offer in  terms  of proviso (a) to  sub-regulation
(2) of regulation 5. (II)  For computation of “weighted average price”: (a)  “weight” means the number of equity shares arising out of conversion of such specified securities into equity shares at various stages; (b)  “price”  means  the  price  of  equity  shares  on  conversion  arrived  at  after  taking  into account the predetermined conversion price at various stages. Securities ineligible for minimum promoters’ contribution
15.  (1)    For  the  computation  of  minimum  promoters’  contribution,  the  following  specified securities shall not be eligible: (a)  specified securities acquired during the preceding three years, if these are: (i) acquired  for  consideration  other  than  cash  and  revaluation  of  assets  or capitalisation of intangible assets is involved in such transaction; or 21 (ii)  resulting from a bonus issue by utilisation of revaluation reserves or unrealised profits  of  the  issuer  or  from  bonus  issue  against  equity  shares  which  are ineligible for minimum promoters’ contribution; (b)  specified  securities  acquired  by  the  promoters  and  alternative  investment  funds  or foreign  venture  capital  investors  or  scheduled  commercial  banks  or  public  financial institutions  or  insurance  companies  registered  with  Insurance  Regulatory  and Development Authority of India, during the preceding one year at a price lower than the  price  at  which  specified  securities  are  being  offered  to  the  public  in  the  initial public offer: Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply: (i) if the promoters and alternative investment funds, as applicable, pay to the issuer  the  difference  between  the  price  at  which  the  specified  securities  are offered in the initial public offer and the price at which the specified securities had been acquired; (ii) if  such  specified  securities  are  acquired  in  terms  of  the  scheme  under  sections 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956 or sections 230 to 234 of the Companies Act,  2013,  as  approved  by  a  High  Court  or  a  tribunal  or  the  Central Government,  as  applicable,  by  the  promoters  in  lieu  of  business  and  invested capital  that  had  been  in  existence  for  a  period  of  more  than  one  year  prior  to such approval; (iii)  to  an  initial  public  offer  by  a  government  company,  statutory  authority  or corporation  or  any  special  purpose  vehicle  set  up  by  any  of  them,  which  is engaged in the infrastructure sector; (c)  specified securities allotted to the promoters and alternative investment funds  during the preceding one year at a price less than the issue price, against funds brought in by them  during  that  period,  in  case  of  an  issuer  formed  by  conversion  of  one  or  more partnership firms or limited liability partnerships, where the partners of the erstwhile partnership firms or limited liability partnerships are the promoters of the issuer and there is no change in the management: Provided  that  specified  securities,  allotted  to  the  promoters  against  the  capital existing in such firms for a period of more than one year on a continuous basis, shall be eligible; (d)  specified securities pledged with any creditor. 22
(2) Specified securities referred to in clauses (a) and (c) of sub-regulation (1) shall be eligible for  the  computation  of  promoters’  contribution  if  such  securities  are  acquired  pursuant  to  a scheme which has been approved by a High Court under the sections 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956 or approved by a tribunal or the Central Government under sections 230 to 234 of the Companies Act, 2013. PART IV: LOCK-IN AND RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFERABILITY Lock-in of specified securities held by the promoters
16.    14[(1)]  The  specified  securities  held  by  the  promoters  shall  not  be  transferable  (hereinafter referred to as “lock-in”) for the periods as stipulated hereunder: a)  minimum  promoters’  contribution  including  contribution  made  by  alternative  investment funds or foreign venture capital investors or scheduled commercial banks or public financial institutions or insurance companies registered with  Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority  of  India  referred  to  in  proviso  to  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  14,    shall  be locked-in  for  a  period  of  three  years  from  the  date  of  commencement  of  commercial production or date of allotment in the initial public offer, whichever is later; (b)   promoters’  holding  in  excess  of  minimum  promoters’  contribution  shall  be  locked-in  for  a period of one year from the date of allotment in the initial public offer. commercial production" means the last date of the month in which commercial production of the project  in  respect  of  which  the  funds  raised  are  proposed  to  be  utilised  as  stated  in  the  offer document, is expected to commence.
15[(2)  The  SR  equity  shares  shall  be  under  lock-in  until  conversion  into  equity  shares  having voting rights  same  as that of ordinary shares or  shall be locked-in  for a  period specified in  sub- regulations (1), whichever is later.] Lock-in of specified securities held by persons other than the promoters
17.  The entire pre-issue capital held by persons other than the promoters shall be locked-in for a period of one year from the date of allotment in the initial public offer: Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to: a) equity  shares  allotted  to  employees,  whether  currently  an  employee  or  not,  under  an employee stock option or employee stock purchase scheme of the issuer  prior to  the initial public offer, if the issuer has made full disclosures with respect to such options or scheme in accordance with Part A of Schedule VI; b) equity shares held by an employee stock option trust or transferred to the employees by an employee  stock  option  trust  pursuant  to  exercise  of  options  by  the  employees,  whether currently employees or not, in accordance with the employee stock option plan or employee stock purchase scheme. Provided that the equity shares allotted to the employees shall be subject to the provisions of lock-in  as  specified  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Share  Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014. c) equity shares held by a venture capital fund or alternative investment fund of category I or Category II or a foreign venture capital investor: Provided that such equity shares shall be locked in for a period of at least one year from the date of purchase by the venture capital fund or alternative investment fund or foreign venture capital investor. conversion  of  fully  paid-up  compulsorily  convertible  securities,  the  holding  period  of  such convertible securities as well as that of resultant equity shares together shall be considered for the purpose  of  calculation  of  one  year  period  and  convertible  securities  shall  be  deemed  to  be  fully paid-up, if the entire consideration payable thereon has been paid and no further consideration is payable at the time of their conversion. Lock-in of specified securities lent to stabilising agent under the green shoe option
18.    The  lock-in  provisions  shall  not  apply  with  respect  to  the  specified  securities  lent  to stabilising agent for the purpose of green shoe option, during the period starting from the date of lending  of  such  specified  securities  and  ending  on  the  date  on  which  they  are  returned  to  the lender in terms of sub-regulation (5) or (6) of regulation 57: Provided that the specified securities shall be locked-in for the remaining period from the date on which they are returned to the lender. Lock-in of party-paid securities
19.    If  the  specified  securities  which  are  subject  to  lock-in  are  partly  paid-up  and  the  amount called-up on such specified securities is less than the amount called-up on the specified securities 24 issued  to  the  public,  the  lock-in  shall  end  only  on  the  expiry  of  three  years  after  such  specified securities have become pari passu with the specified securities issued to the public. Inscription or recording of non-transferability
20.    The  certificates  of  specified  securities  which  are  subject  to  lock-in  shall  contain  the inscription “non-transferable” and specify the lock-in period and in case such specified securities are dematerialised, the issuer shall ensure that the lock-in is recorded by the depository. Pledge of locked-in specified securities
21.  Specified securities16[, except SR equity shares,] held by the promoters and locked-in may be pledged  as  a  collateral  security  for  a  loan  granted  by  a  scheduled  commercial  bank  or  a  public financial  institution  or  a  systemically  important  non-banking  finance  company  or  a  housing finance company, subject to the following: a) if the specified securities are locked-in in terms of clause (a) of regulation 16, the loan has been granted to the issuer company or its subsidiary(ies) for the purpose of financing one or more  of  the  objects  of  the  issue  and  pledge  of  specified  securities  is  one  of  the  terms  of sanction of the loan; b) if the specified securities are locked-in in terms of clause (b) of regulation 16 and the pledge of specified securities is one of the terms of sanction of the loan. Provided  that  such  lock-in  shall  continue  pursuant  to  the  invocation  of  the  pledge  and  such transferee shall not be eligible to transfer the specified securities till the lock-in period stipulated in these regulations has expired. Transferability of locked-in specified securities
22.  Subject to the provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, the specified securities17[, except SR equity shares,] held by the promoters and locked-in as per regulation 16, may be transferred to another promoter or  any  person  of  the  promoter  group  or  a  new  promoter  and  the  specified  securities  held  by persons  other  than  the  promoters  and  locked-in  as  per  regulation  17,  may  be  transferred  to  any other  person  holding  the  specified  securities  which  are  locked-in  along  with  the  securities proposed to be transferred: Provided that the lock-in on such specified securities shall continue for the remaining period with the  transferee  and  such  transferee  shall  not  be  eligible  to  transfer  them  till  the  lock-in  period stipulated in these regulations has expired. PART V: APPOINTMENT OF LEAD MANAGERS, OTHER INTERMEDIARIES AND COMPLIANCE OFFICER
23.  (1)    The  issuer  shall  appoint  one  or  more  merchant  bankers,  which  are  registered  with  the Board, as lead manager(s) to the issue.
(2)    Where  the  issue  is  managed  by  more  than  one  lead  manager,  the  rights,  obligations  and responsibilities, relating inter alia to disclosures, allotment, refund and underwriting obligations, if any, of each lead manager shall be predetermined and be disclosed in the draft offer document and the offer document as specified in Schedule I.
(3)    At  least  one  lead  manager  to  the  issue  shall  not  be  an  associate  (as  defined  under  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992) of the issuer and if any of the lead manager is an associate of the issuer, it shall disclose  itself as an associate of the issuer and its role shall be limited to marketing of the issue.
(4)  The issuer shall, in consultation with the lead manager(s), appoint other intermediaries which are registered with the Board after the lead manager(s) have independently assessed the capability of other intermediaries to carry out their obligations.
(5)  The issuer shall enter into an agreement with the lead manager(s) in the format specified in Schedule II and enter into agreements with other intermediaries as required under the respective regulations applicable to the intermediary concerned: Provided that such agreements may include such other clauses as the issuer and the intermediaries may deem fit without diminishing or limiting in any way the liabilities and obligations of the lead manager(s),  other  intermediaries  and  the  issuer  under  the  Act,  the  Companies  Act,  2013  or  the Companies Act, 1956 (to the extent applicable), the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the  Depositories  Act,  1996  and  the  rules  and  regulations  made  thereunder  or  any  statutory modification or statutory enactment thereof: Provided  further  that  in  case  of  ASBA  process,  the  issuer  shall  take  cognisance  of  the  deemed agreement of the issuer with the self-certified syndicate banks.
(6)    The  issuer  shall,  in  case  of  an  issue  made  through  the  book  building  process,  appoint syndicate member(s) and in the case of any other issue, appoint bankers to issue, at centres in the manner specified in Schedule XII. 26
(7)    The  issuer  shall  appoint  a  registrar  to  the  issue,  registered  with  the  Board,  which  has connectivity with all the depositories: Provided that if the issuer itself is a registrar,  it shall not appoint itself as registrar to the issue; Provided further that the lead manager shall not act as a registrar to the issue in which it is also handling the post-issue responsibilities.
(8)    The  issuer  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be  responsible  for  monitoring  the compliance of the securities laws and for redressal of investors’ grievances. PART VI: DISCLOSURES IN AND FILING OF OFFER DOCUMENTS Disclosures in the draft offer document and offer document
24. (1)  The draft offer document and offer document shall contain all material disclosures which are true and adequate to enable the applicants to take an informed investment decision.
(2)    Without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of  sub-regulation  (1),  the  red-herring  prospectus,  and prospectus shall contain: (a)  disclosures specified in the Companies Act, 2013 and; (b) disclosures specified in Part A of Schedule VI .
(3)  The  lead  manager(s)  shall  exercise  due  diligence  and  satisfy  themselves  about  all  aspects  of the  issue  including  the  veracity  and  adequacy  of  disclosure  in  the  draft  offer  document  and  the offer document.
(4)  The lead manager(s) shall call upon the issuer, its promoters and its directors or in case of an offer for sale, also the selling shareholders, to fulfil their obligations as disclosed by them in the draft offer document and the offer document and as required in terms of these regulations.
(5)  The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the information contained in the draft offer document and offer document and the particulars as per restated audited financial statements in the offer document are not more than six months old from the issue opening date. Filing of the draft offer document and offer document
25. (1)  Prior to making an initial public offer, the issuer shall file three copies of the draft offer document  with  the  concerned  regional  office  of  the  Board  under  the  jurisdiction  of  which  the registered  office  of  the  issuer  company  is  located,  in  accordance  with  Schedule  IV,  along  with fees as specified in Schedule III, through the lead manager(s).
(2)    The  lead  manager(s)  shall  submit  the  following  to  the  Board  along  with  the  draft  offer document: 27 a)  a  certificate,  confirming  that  an  agreement  has  been  entered  into  between  the  issuer  and the lead manager(s); b)  a due diligence certificate as per Form A of Schedule V; c)  in  case  of  an  issue  of  convertible  debt  instruments,  a  due  diligence  certificate  from  the debenture trustee as per Form B of Schedule V;
(3)    The  issuer  shall  also  file  the  draft  offer  document  with  the  stock  exchange(s)  where  the specified securities are proposed to be listed, and submit to the stock exchange(s), the Permanent Account  Number,  bank  account  number  and  passport  number  of  its  promoters  where  they  are individuals,  and  Permanent  Account  Number,  bank  account  number,  company  registration number or equivalent and the address of the Registrar of Companies with which the promoter is registered, where the promoter is a body corporate.
(4)    The  Board  may  specify  changes  or  issue  observations,  if  any,  on  the  draft  offer  document within thirty days from the later of the following dates: a)  the date of receipt of the draft offer document under sub-regulation (1); or b)  the  date  of  receipt  of  satisfactory  reply  from  the  lead  manager(s),  where  the  Board  has sought any clarification or additional information from them; or c)  the date of receipt of clarification or information from any regulator or agency, where the Board has sought any clarification or information from such regulator or agency; or d)  the date of receipt of a copy of in-principle approval letter issued by the stock exchange(s).
(5)    If  the  Board  specifies  any  changes  or  issues  observations  on  the  draft  offer  document,  the issuer  and  lead  manager(s)  shall  carry  out  such  changes  in  the  draft  offer  document  and  shall submit to the Board an updated draft offer document complying with the observations issued by the Board and highlighting all changes made in the draft offer document and  before 18[***] filing the offer documents with the Registrar of Companies or an appropriate authority, as applicable.
(6)    If  there  are  any  changes  in  the  draft  offer  document  in  relation  to  the  matters  specified  in Schedule  XVI,  an  updated  offer  document  or  a  fresh  draft  offer  document,  as  the  case  may  be, shall be filed with the Board along with fees specified in Schedule III.
(7)    Copy  of  the  offer  documents  shall  also  be  filed  with  the  Board  and  the  stock  exchange(s) through  the  lead  manager(s)  promptly  after  19[filing]  the  offer  documents  with  Registrar  of Companies.
(8)  The draft offer document and the offer document shall also be furnished to the Board in a soft copy.
(9)    The  lead  manager(s)  shall  submit  the  following  documents  to  the  Board  after  issuance  of observations  by  the  Board  or  after  expiry  of  the  period  stipulated  in  sub-regulation  (4)  of regulation 25 if the Board has not issued observations: a) a  statement  certifying  that  all  changes,  suggestions  and  observations  made  by  the  Board have been incorporated in the offer document; b) a due diligence certificate as per Form C of Schedule V, at the time of 20[filing] of the offer document; c) a copy of the resolution passed by the board of directors of the issuer for allotting specified securities  to  promoter(s)  towards  amount  received  against  promoters’  contribution,  before opening of the issue; d) a certificate from a statutory auditor, before opening of the issue, certifying that promoters’ contribution  has  been  received  in  accordance  with  these  regulations,  accompanying therewith the names and addresses of the promoters who have contributed to the promoters’ contribution and the amount paid and credited to the issuer’s bank account by each of them towards such contribution; e) a due diligence certificate as per Form D of Schedule V, in the event the issuer has made a disclosure  of  any  material  development  by  issuing  a  public  notice  pursuant  to  para  4  of Schedule IX. Draft offer document and offer document to be available to the public
26. (1)  The draft offer document filed with the Board shall be made public for comments, if any, for a period of at least twenty one days from the date of filing, by hosting it on the websites of the Board, stock exchanges where specified securities are proposed to be listed and lead manager(s) associated with the issue.
(2)  The issuer shall, within two days of filing the draft offer document  with  the Board, make a public  announcement  in  one  English  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation,  one  Hindi national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  and  one  regional  language  newspaper  with  wide circulation at the place where the registered office of the issuer is situated, disclosing the fact of filing  of  the  draft  offer  document  with  the  Board  and  inviting  the  public  to  provide  their comments to the Board, the issuer or the lead manager(s) in respect of the disclosures made in the draft offer document.
(3)  The lead manager(s) shall, after expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (1), file with the  Board,  details  of  the  comments  received  by  them  or  the  issuer  from  the  public,  on  the  draft offer document, during that period and the consequential changes, if any, that are required to be made in the draft offer document.
(4)    The  issuer  and  the  lead  manager(s)    shall  ensure  that  the  offer documents  are hosted  on  the websites as required under these regulations and its contents are the same as the versions as filed with the Registrar of Companies, Board and the stock exchanges, as applicable.
(5)  The lead manager(s) and the stock exchanges shall provide copies of the offer document to the public as and when requested and may charge a reasonable sum for providing a copy of the same. PART VII - PRICING Face value of equity shares
27.  The disclosure about the face value of equity shares shall be made in the draft offer document, offer document, advertisements and application forms, along with the price band or the issue price in  identical font size. Pricing
28. (1)  The issuer may determine the price of equity shares, and in case of convertible securities, the coupon rate and the conversion price, in consultation with the lead manager(s) or through the book building process, as the case may be.
(2)  The  issuer  shall  undertake  the  book  building  process  in  the  manner  specified  in  Schedule XIII. Price and price band
29. (1)  The issuer may mention a price or a price band in the offer document (in case of a fixed price issue) and a floor price or a price band in the red herring prospectus (in case of a book built issue) and  determine  the  price  at  a  later  date  before  21[filing]  the  prospectus  with  the  Registrar  of Companies: Provided that the prospectus 22[filed] with the Registrar of Companies shall contain only one price or the specific coupon rate, as the case may be.
(2) The cap on the price band, and the  coupon rate in case of convertible debt instruments, shall be less than or equal to one hundred and twenty per cent. of the floor price.
(3)    The  floor  price  or  the  final  price  shall  not  be  less  than  the  face  value  of  the  specified securities.
(4)  Where the issuer opts not to make the disclosure of the floor price or price band in the red herring prospectus,  the  issuer  shall  announce  the  floor  price  or  the  price  band  at  least  two  working  days before the opening of the issue in the same newspapers in which the pre-issue advertisement was released  or  together  with  the  pre-issue  advertisement  in  the  format  prescribed  under  Part  A  of Schedule X.
(5)    The  announcement  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (4)  shall  contain  relevant  financial  ratios computed for both upper and lower end of the price band and also a statement drawing attention of the investors to the section titled “basis of issue price” of the offer document.
(6)  The announcement referred to in sub-regulation (4) and the relevant financial ratios referred to in sub-regulation (5) shall be disclosed on the websites of the stock exchange(s) and shall also be  pre-filled  in  the  application  forms  to  be  made  available  on  the  websites  of  the  stock exchange(s). Differential pricing
30. (1)  The issuer may offer its specified securities at different prices, subject to the following: a) retail  individual  investors  or  retail  individual  shareholders  or  employees  entitled  for reservation made under regulation 33 may be offered specified securities at a price not lower than by more than ten per cent. of the price at which net offer is made to other categories of applicants, excluding anchor investors; b) in case of a book built issue, the price of the specified securities offered to the anchor investors shall not be lower than the price offered to other applicants; c) In  case  the  issuer  opts  for  the  alternate  method  of  book  building  in  terms  of  Part  D  of Schedule XIII, the issuer may offer the specified securities to its employees at a price  not lower than by more than ten per cent. of the floor price.
(2) Discount, if any, shall be expressed in rupee terms in the offer document. PART VIII: ISSUANCE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURE Minimum offer to public
31. The minimum offer to the public shall be subject to the provisions of clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 19 of Securities Contracts (Regulations) Rules, 1957. Allocation in the net offer
32. (1) In an issue made through the book building process under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 6 the allocation in the net offer category shall be as follows: (a) not less than thirty five per cent. to retail individual investors; (b) not less than fifteen per cent. to non-institutional investors; (c)  not  more  than  fifty  per  cent.  to  qualified  institutional  buyers,  five  per  cent.  of  which  shall  be allocated to mutual funds: Provided that the unsubscribed portion in either of the categories specified in clauses (a) or (b) may be allocated to applicants in any other category: Provided further that in addition to five per cent. allocation available in terms of clause (c), mutual funds shall be eligible for allocation under the balance available for qualified institutional buyers.
(2)  In an issue made through the book building process under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 6, the allocation in the net offer category shall be as follows: (a) not more than ten per cent. to retail individual investors; (b) not more than fifteen per cent. to non-institutional investors; (c) not less than seventy five per cent. to qualified institutional buyers, five per cent. of which shall be allocated to mutual funds Provided that the unsubscribed portion in either of the categories specified in clauses (a) or (b) may be allocated to applicants in the other category: Provided further that in addition to five per cent. allocation available in terms of clause (c), mutual funds shall be eligible for allocation under the balance available for qualified institutional buyers.
(3)  In an issue made through the book building process, the issuer may allocate up to sixty per cent. of  the  portion  available  for  allocation  to  qualified  institutional  buyers  to  anchor  investors  in accordance with the conditions specified in this regard in Schedule XIII.
(4)    In  an  issue  made  other  than  through  the  book  building  process,  the  allocation  in the  net  offer category shall be made as follows: i)  minimum fifty per cent. to retail individual investors; and ii) remaining to: (i) individual applicants other than retail individual investors; and 32 (ii)  other  investors  including  corporate  bodies  or  institutions,  irrespective  of  the  number  of specified securities applied for; Provided that the unsubscribed portion in either of the categories specified in clauses (a) or (b) may be allocated to applicants in the other category. entitled  to  more  than  fifty  per  cent.  of  the  issue  size  on  a  proportionate  basis,  the  retail  individual investors shall be allocated that higher percentage. Reservation on a competitive basis
33.  (1)    The  issuer  may  make  reservations  on  a  competitive  basis  out  of  the  issue  size  excluding promoters’ contribution in favour of the following categories of persons: a) b) employees; shareholders (other than promoters and promoter group) of listed subsidiaries or listed promoter companies. Provided  that  the  issuer  shall  not  make  any  reservation  for  the  lead  manager(s),  registrar, syndicate member(s), their promoters, directors and employees and for the group or associate companies (as defined under the Companies Act, 2013) of the lead manager(s), registrar and syndicate member(s) and their promoters, directors and employees.
(2) The reservations on a competitive basis shall be subject to the following conditions: a) the aggregate of reservations for employees shall not exceed  five per cent. of the post-issue capital of the issuer and the value of allotment to any employee shall not exceed two lakhs rupees: Provided  that  in  the  event  of  under-subscription  in  the  employee  reservation  portion,  the unsubscribed portion may be allotted on a proportionate basis, for a value in excess of two lakhs rupees, subject to the total allotment to an employee not exceeding five lakhs rupees. reservation for shareholders shall not exceed ten per cent. of the issue size; no  further  application  for  subscription  in  the  net  offer  can  be  made  by  persons  (except  an employee and retail individual shareholder)  in favour of whom reservation on a competitive b) c) basis is made; d) any unsubscribed portion in any reserved category may be added to any other reserved category and  the  unsubscribed  portion,  if  any,  after  such  inter-se  adjustments  among  the  reserved categories shall be added to the net offer category; e) in  case  of  under-subscription  in  the  net  offer  category,  spill-over  to  the  extent  of  under- subscription shall be permitted from the reserved category to the net offer. 33
(3)  An  applicant  in  any  reserved  category  may  make  an  application  for  any  number  of  specified securities, but not exceeding the reserved portion for that category. Abridged prospectus
34. (1)  The abridged prospectus shall contain the disclosures as specified in Part E of Schedule VI and shall not contain any matter extraneous to the contents of the offer document.
(2)    Every  application  form  distributed  by  the  issuer  or  any  other  person  in  relation  to  an  issue shall be accompanied by a copy of the abridged prospectus. ASBA
35.    The  issuer  shall  accept  bids  using  only  the  ASBA  facility  in  the  manner  specified  by  the Board. Availability of issue material
36.  The lead manager(s) shall ensure availability of the offer document and other issue material including  application  forms  to  stock  exchanges,  syndicate  members,  registrar  to  issue,  registrar and  share  transfer  agents,  depository  participants,  stock  brokers,  underwriters,  bankers  to  the issue, and self certified syndicate banks before the opening of the issue. Prohibition on payment of incentives
37. Any person connected with the issue shall not offer any incentive, whether direct or indirect, in any  manner,  whether  in  cash  or  kind  or  services  or  otherwise  to  any  person  for  making  an application  in  the  initial  public  offer,  except  for  fees  or  commission  for  services  rendered  in relation to the issue. Security deposit
38.  (1)  The  issuer  shall,  before  the  opening  of  the  subscription  list,  deposit  with  the  designated stock  exchange,  an  amount  calculated  at  the  rate  of  one  per  cent.  of  the  issue  size  available  for subscription to the public in the manner specified by Board and/or stock exchange(s).
(2)    The  amount  specified  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  refundable  or  forfeitable  in  the  manner specified by the Board. IPO grading 34
39.    The  issuer  may  obtain  grading  for  its  initial  public  offer  from  one  or  more  credit  rating agencies registered with the Board. Underwriting
40. (1)  If the issuer making an initial public offer, other than through the book building process, desires  to  have  the  issue  underwritten,  it  shall  appoint  underwriters  in  accordance  with  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993.
(2) If the issuer makes a public issue through the book building process, a) the issue shall be underwritten by lead manager(s) and syndicate member(s): Provided  that  at  least  seventy  five  per  cent.  of  the  net  offer  proposed  to  be  compulsorily allotted  to  qualified  institutional  buyers  for  the  purpose  of  compliance  of  the  eligibility conditions specified in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 6, cannot be underwritten. b) the  issuer  shall,  prior  to  filing  the  prospectus,  enter  into  underwriting  agreement  with  the lead  manager(s)  and  syndicate  member(s),  indicating  therein  the  number  of  specified securities  which  they  shall  subscribe  to  at  the  predetermined  price  in  the  event  of  under- subscription in the issue. c) if the syndicate member(s) fail to  fulfil their underwriting obligations, the lead manager(s) shall fulfil the underwriting obligations. d) the lead manager(s) and syndicate member(s) shall not subscribe to the issue in any manner except for fulfilling their underwriting obligations. e) in  case  of  every  underwritten  issue,  the  lead  manager(s)  shall  undertake  minimum underwriting  obligations  as  specified  in  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992. f)  where the issue is required to be underwritten, the underwriting obligations should at least to the extent of minimum subscription. Monitoring agency
41. (1)  If the issue size, excluding the size of offer for sale by selling shareholders,  exceeds one hundred crore rupees, the issuer shall make arrangements for the use of proceeds of the issue to be monitored by a public financial institution or by a scheduled commercial bank  named in the offer document as bankers of the issuer: Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to an issue of specified securities made by a bank or public financial institution or an insurance company. 35
(2) The  monitoring  agency  shall  submit  its  report  to  the  issuer  in  the  format  specified  in Schedule  XI  on  a  quarterly  basis,  till  at  least  ninety  five  per  cent.  of  the  proceeds  of  the  issue, excluding the proceeds raised for general corporate purposes, have been utilised.
(3) The board of directors and the management of the issuer shall provide their comments on the findings of the monitoring agency as specified in Schedule XI.
(4) The issuer shall, within forty five days from the end of each quarter, publicly disseminate the report of the monitoring agency by uploading the same on its website as well as submitting the same to the stock exchange(s) on which its equity shares are listed. Public communications, publicity materials, advertisements and research reports
42.  All  public  communication,  publicity  materials,  advertisements  and  research  reports  shall comply with the provisions of Schedule IX. Issue-related advertisements
43. (1)  Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the issuer shall, after 23[filing] the red herring prospectus (in case of a book built issue) or prospectus (in case of fixed price issue) with the  Registrar  of  Companies,  make  a  pre-issue  advertisement  in  one  English  national  daily newspaper  with  wide  circulation,  Hindi  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  and  one regional language newspaper with wide circulation at the place where the registered office of the issuer is situated.
(2)  The pre-issue advertisement shall be in the format and shall contain the disclosures specified in Part A of Schedule X. Provided  that  the  disclosures  in  relation  to  price  band  or  floor  price  and  financial  ratios  contained therein shall only be applicable where the issuer opts to announce the price band or floor price along with the pre-issue advertisement pursuant to sub-regulation (4) of regulation 29.
(3)  The issuer may release advertisements for issue opening and issue closing, which shall be in the formats specified in Parts B and C of Schedule X.
(4)  During the period the issue is open for subscription, no advertisement shall be released giving an impression that the issue has been fully subscribed or oversubscribed or indicating investors’ response to the issue. Opening of the issue 44 . (1)  Subject to the compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, a public issue may be opened within twelve months from the date of issuance of the observations by the Board under regulation 25;
(2)  An issue shall be opened after at least three working days from the date of  24[filing], the red herring prospectus, in case of a book built issue and the prospectus, in case of a fixed price issue, with the Registrar of Companies. Minimum subscription
45. (1)  The minimum subscription to be received in the issue shall be at least ninety per cent. of the offer through the offer document, except in case of an offer for sale of specified securities: Provided  that  the  minimum  subscription  to  be  received  shall  be  subject  to  the  allotment  of minimum  number  of  specified  securities,  as  prescribed  under  the  Securities  Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957.
(2)    In  the  event  of  non-receipt  of  minimum  subscription  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1),  all application monies received shall be refunded to the applicants forthwith, but not later than fifteen days from the closure of the issue. Period of subscription
46. (1)  Except as otherwise provided in these regulations, an initial public offer shall be kept open for at least three working days and not more than ten working days.
(2) In case of a revision in the price band, the issuer shall extend the bidding (issue) period disclosed in the red herring prospectus, for a minimum period of three working days, subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (1).
(3)  In case of force  majeure, banking strike or similar circumstances, the issuer may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend the bidding (issue) period disclosed in the red herring prospectus (in case  of  a  book  built  issue)  or  the issue  period  disclosed  in  the  prospectus (in  case  of  a  fixed  price issue), for a minimum period of three working days, subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (1). Application and minimum application value
47.  (1)  A person  shall  not  make  an  application in the  net  offer  category  for  a  number of  specified securities that exceeds the total number of specified securities offered to the public. Provided that the maximum application by non-institutional investors shall not exceed total number of specified securities offered in the issue less total number of specified securities offered in the issue to qualified institutional buyers.
(2)    The  issuer  shall  stipulate  in  the  offer  document  the  minimum  application  size  in  terms  of number of specified securities which shall fall within the range of minimum application value of ten thousand rupees to fifteen thousand rupees.
(3)  The issuer shall invite applications in multiples of the minimum application value, an illustration whereof is given in Part B of Schedule XIV.
(4)  The minimum sum payable on application per specified security shall be at least twenty five per cent. of the issue price: Provided  that  in  case  of  an  offer  for  sale,  the  full  issue  price  for  each  specified  security  shall  be payable at the time of application. reference to the issue price of the specified securities and not with reference to the amount payable on application. Manner of calls
48.  If the issuer proposes to receive subscription monies in calls, it shall ensure that the outstanding subscription money is called within twelve months from the date of allotment in the issue and if any applicant fails to pay the call money within the said twelve months, the equity shares on which there are calls in arrears along with the subscription money already paid on such shares shall be forfeited: Provided  that  it  shall  not  be  necessary  to  call  the  outstanding  subscription  money  within  twelve months, if the issuer has appointed a monitoring agency in terms of regulation 41. Allotment procedure and basis of allotment
49. (1)  The issuer shall not make an allotment pursuant to a public issue if the number of prospective allottees is less than one thousand.
(2)  The issuer shall not make any allotment in excess of the specified securities offered through the  offer  document  except  in  case  of  oversubscription  for  the  purpose  of  rounding  off  to  make allotment, in consultation with the designated stock exchange. Provided that in case of oversubscription, an allotment of not more than one per cent. of the net offer to public may be made for the purpose of making allotment in minimum lots.
(3)  The allotment of specified securities to applicants other than to the retail individual investors and  anchor  investors  shall  be  on  a  proportionate  basis  within  the  respective  investor  categories and  the  number  of  securities  allotted  shall  be  rounded  off  to  the  nearest  integer,  subject  to 38 minimum allotment being equal to the minimum application size as determined and disclosed in the offer document: Provided that the value of specified securities allotted to any person, except in case of employees, in  pursuance  of  reservation  made  under  clause  (a)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  or  clause  (a)  of  sub- regulation (2) of regulation 33, shall not exceed two lakhs rupees for retail investors or up to five lakhs rupees for eligible employees.
(4)  The  allotment  of  specified  securities  to  each  retail  individual  investor  shall  not  be  less  than the minimum bid lot, subject to the availability of shares in retail individual investor category, and the remaining available shares, if any, shall be allotted on a proportionate basis.
(5)  The authorised employees of the designated stock exchange, along with the  lead manager(s) and registrars to the issue, shall ensure that the basis of allotment is finalised in a fair and proper manner in accordance with the procedure as specified in Part A of Schedule XIV. Allotment, refund and payment of interest
50. (1)  The issuer and lead manager(s) shall ensure that the specified securities are allotted and/or application monies are refunded or unblocked within such period as may be specified by the Board.
(2)  The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the allotment, credit of dematerialised securities and refund or unblocking of application monies, as may be applicable, are done electronically.
(3)  Where  the  specified  securities  are  not  allotted  and/or  application  monies  are  not  refunded  or unblocked within the period stipulated in sub-regulation (1) above, the issuer shall undertake to pay interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum to the investors and within such time as disclosed in the offer document and the lead manager(s) shall ensure the same. Post-issue advertisements
51.  (1)  The  lead  manager(s)  shall  ensure  that  an  advertisement  giving  details  relating  to subscription,  basis  of  allotment,  number,  value  and  percentage  of  all  applications  including ASBA, number, value and percentage of successful allottees for all applications including ASBA, date  of  completion  of  despatch  of  refund  orders,  as  applicable,  or  instructions  to  self-certified syndicate banks by the registrar, date of credit of specified securities and date of filing of listing application, etc. is released within ten days from the date of completion of the various activities in at  least  one  English  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation,  one  Hindi  national  daily newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language daily newspaper with wide circulation at the place where registered office of the issuer is situated. 39
(2)  Details  specified  in  sub  regulation  (1)  shall  also  be  placed  on  the  websites  of  the  stock exchange(s). Post-issue responsibilities of the lead manager(s)
52.  (1)    The  responsibility  of  the  lead  manager(s)  shall  continue  until  completion  of  the  issue process and for any issue related matter thereafter.
(2) The lead manager(s) shall regularly monitor redressal of investor grievances arising from any issue related activities.
(3)    The  lead  manager(s)    shall  continue  to  be  responsible  for  post-issue  activities  till  the applicants  have  received  the  securities  certificates,  credit  to  their  demat  account  or  refund  of application monies and the listing agreement is entered into by the issuer with the stock exchange and listing or trading permission is obtained.
(4)  The lead manager(s) shall be responsible for and co-ordinate with the registrars to the issue and  with  various  intermediaries  at  regular  intervals  after  the  closure  of  the  issue  to  monitor  the flow of applications from syndicate member(s) or collecting bank branches and/ or self-certified syndicate  banks,  processing  of  the  applications  including  application  form  for  ASBA  and  other matters  till  the  basis  of  allotment  is  finalised,    credit  of  the  specified  securities  to  the  demat accounts  of  the  allottees  and  unblocking  of  ASBA  accounts/  despatch  of  refund  orders  are completed and securities are listed, as applicable.
(5) Any act of omission or commission on the part of any of the intermediaries noticed by the lead manager(s) shall be duly reported by them to the Board.
(6) In case there is a devolvement on the underwriters, the lead manager(s) shall ensure that the notice  for  devolvement  containing  the  obligation  of  the  underwriters  is  issued  within  ten  days from the date of closure of the issue.
(7) In the case of undersubscribed issues that are underwritten, the  lead manager(s) shall furnish information in respect of underwriters who have failed to meet their underwriting devolvement to the Board, in the format specified in Schedule XVIII. Release of subscription money
53. (1)  The lead manager(s) shall confirm to the bankers to the issue by way of copies of listing and  trading  approvals  that  all  formalities  in  connection  with  the  issue  have  been  completed  and that the banker is free to release the money to the issuer or release the money for refund in case of failure of the issue. 40
(2)  In case the issuer fails to obtain listing or trading permission from the stock exchanges where the specified securities were to be listed, it shall refund through verifiable means the entire monies received within seven days of receipt of intimation from stock exchanges rejecting the application for listing of specified securities, and if any such money is not repaid within eight days after the issuer becomes liable to repay it, the issuer and every director of the company who is an officer in default shall, on and from the expiry of the eighth day, be jointly and severally liable to repay that money with interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum.
(3) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the monies received in respect of the issue are released to the issuer in compliance with the provisions of Section 40 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013, as applicable. Reporting of transactions of the promoters and promoter group
54.    The  issuer  shall  ensure  that  all  transactions  in  securities  by  the  promoter  and  promoter  group between the date of filing of the draft offer document or offer document, as the case may be, and the date of closure of the issue shall be reported to the stock exchange(s), within twenty four hours of such transactions. Post-issue reports
55.  The lead manager(s) shall submit a final post-issue report as specified in Part A of Schedule XVII, along with a due diligence certificate as per the format specified in Form F of Schedule V, within seven days of the date of finalization of basis of allotment or within seven days of refund of money in case of failure of issue. PART IX: MISCELLANEOUS Restriction on further capital issues
56.  An issuer shall not make any further issue of specified securities in any manner whether by way of public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, qualified institutions placement, issue of bonus shares or  otherwise,  except  pursuant  to  an  employee  stock  option  scheme,  during  the  period  between  the date of filing the draft offer document and the listing of the specified securities offered through the offer document or refund of application monies, unless full disclosures regarding the total number of specified securities or amount proposed to be raised from such further issue are made in such draft offer document or offer document, as the case may be. Price stabilisation through green shoe option 41
57. (1)  An issuer may provide a green shoe option for stabilising the post listing price of its specified securities, subject to the following: a)  the issuer has been authorized, by a resolution passed in the general meeting of shareholders approving the public issue, to allot specified securities to the stabilising agent, if required, on the expiry of the stabilisation period; b)  the issuer has appointed a lead manager as a stabilising agent, who shall be responsible for the price stabilisation process; c)  prior to filing the draft offer document, the issuer and the stabilising agent have entered into an agreement, stating all the terms and conditions relating to the green shoe option including fees  charged  and  expenses  to  be  incurred  by  the  stabilising  agent  for  discharging  its responsibilities; d)  prior to filing the offer document, the stabilising agent has entered into an agreement with the promoters or pre-issue shareholders or both for borrowing specified securities from them in accordance with clause (g) of this sub-regulation, specifying therein the maximum number of specified  securities  that  may  be  borrowed  for  the  purpose  of  allotment  or  allocation  of specified  securities  in  excess  of  the  issue  size  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “over- allotment”), which shall not be in excess of fifteen per cent. of the issue size; e)  subject  to  clause  (d),  the  lead  manager,  in  consultation  with  the  stabilising  agent,  shall determine the amount of specified securities to be over-allotted in the public issue; f)  the draft offer document and offer document shall contain all material disclosures about the green shoe option specified in this regard in Part A of Schedule VI; g)  in case of an initial public offer pre-issue shareholders and promoters and in case of a further public offer pre-issue shareholders holding more than five per cent. specified securities and promoters, may lend specified securities to the extent of the proposed over-allotment; h)  the  specified  securities  borrowed  shall  be  in  dematerialised  form  and  allocation  of  these securities shall be made pro-rata to all successful applicants.
(2)  For  the  purpose  of  stabilisation  of  post-listing  price  of  the  specified  securities,  the  stabilising agent shall determine the relevant aspects including the timing of buying such securities, quantity to be bought and the price at which such securities are to be bought from the market.
(3)  The stabilisation process shall be available for a period not exceeding thirty days from the date on which trading  permission  is  given  by  the  stock  exchanges  in  respect  of  the  specified  securities allotted in the public issue.
(4)  The stabilising agent shall open a special account, distinct from the issue account, with a bank for crediting  the  monies  received  from  the  applicants  against  the  over-allotment  and  a  special 42 account  with  a  depository  participant  for  crediting  specified  securities  to  be  bought  from  the market during the stabilisation period out of the monies credited in the special bank account.
(5)  The  specified  securities  bought  from  the  market  and  credited  in  the  special  account  with  the depository participant shall be returned to the promoters or pre-issue shareholders immediately, in any case not later than two working days after the end of the stabilization period.
(6)  On expiry of the stabilisation period, if the stabilising agent has not been able to buy specified securities  from  the  market  to  the  extent  of  such  securities  over-allotted,  the  issuer  shall  allot specified  securities  at  issue  price  in  dematerialised  form  to  the  extent  of  the  shortfall  to  the special account with the depository participant, within five days of the closure of the stabilisation period and such specified securities shall be returned to the promoters or pre-issue shareholders by  the  stabilising  agent in  lieu  of  the  specified  securities  borrowed  from them  and  the  account with the depository participant shall be closed thereafter.
(7)  The  issuer  shall  make  a  listing  application  in  respect  of  the  further  specified  securities  allotted under sub-regulation (6), to all the stock exchanges where the specified securities allotted in the public issue are listed and the provisions of Chapter VII shall not be applicable to such allotment.
(8)  The stabilising agent shall remit the monies with respect to the specified securities allotted under sub-regulation (6) to the issuer from the special bank account.
(9)  Any monies left in the special bank account after remittance of monies to the issuer under sub- regulation  (8)  and  deduction  of  expenses  incurred  by  the  stabilising  agent  for  the  stabilisation process  shall  be  transferred  to  the  Investor  Protection  and  Education  Fund  established  by  the Board and the special bank account shall be closed soon thereafter.
(10)  The stabilising agent shall submit a report to the stock exchange on a daily basis during the stabilisation period and a final report to the Board in the format specified in Schedule XV.
(11)  The stabilising agent shall maintain a register for a period of at least three years from the date of the end of the stabilisation period and such register shall contain the following particulars: (a)  The  names  of  the  promoters  or  pre-issue  shareholders  from  whom  the  specified  securities were borrowed and the number of specified securities borrowed from each of them; (b)  The  price,  date  and  time  in  respect  of  each  transaction  effected  in  the  course  of  the stabilisation process; and (c) The details of allotment made by the issuer on expiry of the stabilisation process. Alteration of rights of holders of specified securities
58. The issuer shall not alter the terms including the terms of issue of specified securities which may  adversely  affect  the  interests  of  the  holders  of  that  specified  securities,  except  with  the consent  in  writing  of the holders of not  less than three-fourths  of the specified securities of that 43 class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a meeting of the holders of the specified securities of that class. Post-listing exit opportunity for dissenting shareholders
59.  The promoters, or shareholders in control of an issuer, shall provide an exit offer to dissenting shareholders as provided for in the Companies Act, 2013, in case of change in objects or variation in the terms of contract related to objects referred to in the offer document as per conditions and manner is provided in Schedule XX; Provided  that  the  exit  offer  shall  not  apply  where  there  are  neither  any  identifiable  promoters nor any shareholders in control of the issuer. CHAPTER III - RIGHTS ISSUE PART I: ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS Reference date
60.  Unless otherwise provided in this Chapter, an issuer offering specified securities of aggregate value of  25[fifty crores] rupees or more, through a rights issue shall satisfy the conditions of this Chapter at the time of filing the  draft letter of offer  with the Board and also at the time of filing the final letter of offer  with the stock exchanges, as the case may be. Entities not eligible to make a rights issue
61. An issuer shall not be eligible to make a rights issue of specified securities: a) if the issuer, any of its promoters, promoter group or directors of the issuer are debarred from accessing the capital market by the Board; b) if  any  of  the  promoters  or  directors  of  the  issuer  is  a  promoter  or  director  of  any  other company which is debarred from accessing the capital market  by the Board. c) if any of its promoters or directors is a fugitive economic offender. entities  mentioned  therein]  who  were  debarred  in  the  past  by  the  Board  and  the  period  of debarment is already over as on the date of filing of the draft letter of offer with the Board. General conditions
62. (1)  The issuer making a rights issue of specified securities shall ensure that: (a) it has made an application to one or more stock exchanges to seek an in-principle approval for listing of its specified securities on such stock exchanges and has chosen one of them as the designated stock exchange, in terms of Schedule XIX. (b)  all  its  existing  partly  paid-up  equity  shares  have  either  been  fully  paid-up  or  have  been forfeited; (c)  it  has  made  firm  arrangements  of  finance  through  verifiable  means  towards  seventy  five per cent. of the stated means of finance for the specific project proposed to be funded from issue  proceeds,  excluding  the  amount  to  be  raised  through  the  proposed  rights  issue  or through existing identifiable internal accruals. mean finance of capital expenditures only.]
(2) The amount  for  general  corporate purposes, as mentioned in  objects  of the issue in  the draft letter of offer and the letter of offer, shall not exceed twenty five per cent. of the amount raised by the issuer.
(3)  Where  the  issuer  or  any  of  its  promoters  or  directors  is  a  wilful  defaulter,  the  promoters  or promoter  group  of  the  issuer  shall  not  renounce  their  rights  except  to  the  extent  of  renunciation within the promoter group.
28[(4) Where the issuer has issued SR equity shares to its promoters or founders, then such a SR shareholder  shall  not  renounce  their  rights  and  the  SR  shares  received  in  a  rights  issue  shall remain  under  lock-in  until  conversion  into  equity  shares  having  voting  rights  same  as  that  of ordinary equity shares along with existing SR equity shares.] PART II: ISSUE OF CONVERTIBLE DEBT INSTRUMENTS AND WARRANTS Additional requirements for issue of convertible debt instruments
63. (1) In addition to other requirements laid down in these regulations, an issuer making a rights issue of convertible debt instruments shall also comply with the following conditions: a)  it has obtained credit rating from at least one credit rating agency; b)  it  has  appointed  at  least  one  debenture  trustee  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the Companies  Act,  2013  and  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Debenture  Trustees) Regulations, 1993; c)  it  shall  create  a  debenture  redemption  reserve  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of    the Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder; d)  if  the  issuer  proposes  to  create  a  charge  or  security  on  its  assets  in  respect  of  secured convertible debt instruments, it shall ensure that: (i)  such assets are sufficient to discharge the principal amount at all times; (ii)  such assets are free from any encumbrance; (iii)  where  security  is  already  created  on  such  assets  in  favour  of  any  existing  lender  or security trustee or the issue of convertible debt  instruments is  proposed to  be secured by creation of security on a leasehold  land, the consent  of such lender or security trustee or lessor for a second or pari passu charge has been obtained and submitted to the debenture trustee before the opening of the issue; (iv) the security or asset cover shall be arrived at after reduction of the liabilities having a first or  prior  charge,  in  case  the  convertible  debt  instruments  are  secured  by  a  second  or subsequent charge.
(2)  The issuer shall redeem the convertible debt instruments in terms of the letter of offer. Roll over of non-convertible portion of partly convertible debt instruments
64.    (1)  The  non-convertible  portion  of  partly  convertible  debt  instruments  issued  by  a  listed issuer,  the  value  of  which  exceeds  ten  crore  rupees,  may  be  rolled  over,  subject  to  compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013  and the following conditions: (a)  seventy  five  per  cent.  of  the  holders  (in  value)  of  the  convertible  debt  instruments  of  the issuer have, through a resolution, approved the rollover through postal ballot; (b) the  issuer  has,  along  with  the  notice  for  passing  the  resolution,  sent  to  all  holders  of  the convertible debt instruments, an auditors’ certificate on the cash flow of the issuer and with comments on the liquidity position of the issuer; (c) the  issuer  has  undertaken  to  redeem  the  non-convertible  portion  of  the  partly  convertible debt instruments of all the holders of the convertible debt instruments who have not agreed to the resolution; (d)  credit  rating  has  been  obtained  from  at  least  one  credit  rating  agency  registered  with  the Board  within  a  period  of  one  month  prior  to  the  due  date  of  redemption  and  has  been communicated to the holders of the convertible debt instruments, before the roll over; 46
(2)  The creation of fresh security and execution of fresh trust deed shall not be mandatory if the existing  trust  deed  or  the  security  documents  provide  for  continuance  of  the  security  till redemption of secured convertible debt instruments: Provided that whether the issuer is required to create fresh security and to execute fresh trust deed or not shall be decided by the debenture trustee. Conversion of optionally convertible debt instruments into equity shares
65. (1)  An issuer shall not convert its optionally convertible debt instruments into equity shares unless  the  holders  of  such  convertible  debt  instruments  have  sent  their  positive  consent  to  the issuer  and  non-receipt  of  reply  to  any  notice  sent  by  the  issuer  for  this  purpose  shall  not  be construed as consent for conversion of any convertible debt instruments.
(2) Where the value of the convertible portion of any listed convertible debt instruments issued by an  issuer  exceeds  ten  crores  and  the  issuer  has  not  determined  the  conversion  price  of  such convertible debt instruments at the time of making the issue, the holders of such convertible debt instruments shall be given the option of not converting the convertible portion into equity shares: Provided  that  where  the  upper  limit  on  the  price  of  such  convertible  debt  instruments  and justification thereon is determined and disclosed to the investors at the time of making the issue, it shall not  be necessary to give such option to  the  holders of the  convertible debt instruments  for converting the convertible portion into equity share capital within the said upper limit
(3) Where an option is to be given to the holders of the convertible debt instruments in terms of sub-regulation  (2)  and  if  one  or  more  of  such  holders  do  not  exercise  the  option  to  convert  the instruments  into  equity  share  capital  at  a  price  determined  in  the  general  meeting  of  the shareholders, the issuer shall redeem that part of the instruments within one month from the last date by which option is to be exercised, at a price which shall not be less than its face value. Provided that the provisions of sub-regulation (3) shall not apply if such redemption is in terms of the disclosures made in the offer document. Issue of convertible debt instruments for financing
66.  An issuer shall not issue convertible debt instruments for financing or for providing loans to or for acquiring shares of any person who is part of the promoter group or group companies: Provided  that  an  issuer  shall  be  eligible  to  issue  fully  convertible  debt  instruments  for  these purposes if the period of conversion of such debt instruments  is  less than eighteen months from the date of issue of such debt instruments. Issue of warrants 47
67.  An issuer shall be eligible to issue warrants subject to the following: a)  the tenure of such warrants shall not exceed eighteen months from their date of allotment in the rights issue; b)  a specified security may have one or more warrants attached to it; c) the  price  or  formula  for  determination  of  exercise  price  of  the  warrants  shall  be  determined upfront  and  disclosed  in  the  letter  of  offer  and  at  least  twenty-five  per  cent.  of  the consideration amount based on the exercise price shall also be received upfront; Provided  that  in  case  the  exercise  price  of  warrants  is  based  on  a  formula,  twenty-five  per cent. consideration amount calculated as per the formula with reference date being the record date shall be received upfront. d)  in case the warrant holder does not exercise the option to take equity shares against any of the warrants  held  by    the  warrant  holder,  within  three  months  from  the  date  of  payment  of consideration,  such  consideration  made  in  respect  of  such  warrants  shall  be  forfeited  by  the issuer. PART III: RECORD DATE
68. (1)  The issuer shall announce a record date for the purpose of determining the shareholders eligible  to  apply  for  specified  securities  in  the  proposed  rights  issue  for  such  period  as  may  be specified  in  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
(2) The issuer shall not withdraw its rights issue after announcement of the record date. However, if the issuer withdraws the rights issue after announcing the record date, it shall not be eligible to make an application for listing of any of its specified securities on any stock exchange for a period of twelve months from the record date announced under sub-regulation (1): Provided  that  the  issuer  may  seek  listing  of  its  equity  shares  allotted  pursuant  to  conversion  or exchange  of  convertible  securities,  ESOPs  or  exercise  of  warrants  issued  prior  to  the announcement of the record date, on the stock exchange where its securities are listed. PART IV – 29[APPOINTMENT  OF  LEAD  MANAGERS  AND  OTHER INTERMEDIARIES]
69.  (1)  The  issuer  shall  appoint  one  or  more  merchant  bankers,  which  are  registered  with  the Board, as lead manager(s) to the issue.
(2)  Where  the  issue  is  managed  by  more  than  one  lead  manager,  the  rights,  obligations  and responsibilities, relating inter alia to disclosures, allotment, refund and underwriting obligations, if any, of each lead manager shall be predetermined and be disclosed in the draft letter offer and the letter of offer as specified in Schedule I:
(3) At least one lead manager to the issue shall not be an associate (as defined under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992) of the issuer and if any of the lead manager is an associate of the issuer, it shall disclose  itself as an associate of the issuer and its role shall be limited to marketing of the issue.
(4) The issuer shall, in consultation with the lead manager(s), appoint other intermediaries which are registered with the Board after the lead manager(s)  have independently assessed the capability of other intermediaries to carry out their obligations.
(5)  The  issuer  shall  enter  into  an  agreement  with  the  lead  manager(s)  in  the  format  specified  in Schedule  II  and  also  enter  into  agreements  with  other  intermediaries  as  required  under  the respective regulations applicable to the intermediary concerned: Provided that such agreements may include such other clauses as the issuer and the intermediaries may deem fit without diminishing or limiting in any way the liabilities and obligations of the lead manager(s),  other  intermediaries  and  the  issuer  under  the  Act,  the  Companies  Act,  2013  or  the Companies Act, 1956 (to the extent applicable), the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the  Depositories  Act,  1996  and  the  rules  and  regulations  made  thereunder  or  any  statutory modification or statutory enactment thereof: Provided  further  that  in  case  of  ASBA  process,  the  issuer  shall  take  cognisance  of  the  deemed agreement of the issuer with the self-certified syndicate banks.
(6) The issuer shall appoint bankers to an issue, at centres as specified in Schedule XII.
(7)  The  issuer  shall  appoint  a  registrar  to  the  issue  registered  with  the  Board,  which  has connectivity with all the depositories: Provided that if the issuer itself is a registrar, it shall not appoint itself as a registrar to the issue; Provided  further  that  a  lead  manager  shall  not  act  as  a  registrar  to  the  issue  in  which  it  is  also handling the post-issue responsibilities.
(8) 30[***] PART V: DISCLOSURES IN AND FILING OF LETTERS OF OFFER
28.09.2020. Prior to its omission, it read as:
“(8)  The  issuer  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be  responsible  for  monitoring  the  compliance  of  the securities laws and for redressal of investors’ grievances.”. 49 Disclosures in the draft letter of offer and letter of offer
70. (1) The draft letter of offer and letter of offer shall contain all material disclosures which are true and adequate to enable the applicants to take an informed investment decision.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the draft letter of offer and letter of offer  shall  contain  disclosures  as  specified  in  31[Part  B  or  Part  B-1]  of  Schedule  VI,  as applicable.
(3)  The lead manager(s) shall exercise due diligence and satisfy themselves about all aspects of the issue including the veracity and adequacy of disclosure in the draft letter of offer and the letter of offer.
(4)    The  lead  manager(s)  shall  call  upon  the  issuer,  its  promoters  and  its  directors  to  fulfil  their obligations as disclosed by them in  the draft letter of offer and letter of  offer and  as required in terms of these Regulations.
(5)  The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the information contained in the draft letter of offer and letter of offer and the particulars as per audited financial statements in the letter of offer are not more than six months old from the issue opening date.
(6)  An issuer shall make disclosures in the draft letter of offer, letter of offer and abridged letter of offer, if the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a wilful defaulter.
32[(7) In the letter of offer and the abridged letter of offer, the issuer shall disclose the process of credit of rights entitlements in the demat account and renunciation thereof.] Filing of the draft letter of offer and letter of offer
71. (1)  Prior to making a rights issue, the issuer shall, except in case of a fast track issue, file a draft  letter  of  offer,  with  the  concerned  regional  office  of  the  Board  under  the  jurisdiction  of which  the  registered  office  of  the  issuer  company  is  located,  in  accordance  with  Schedule  IV, along  with  fees  as  specified  in  Schedule  III,  with  the  Board  and  with  the  stock  exchange(s), through the lead manager(s). Provided that the issuer shall, in case of fast track issue,  33[file] a letter of offer and pay fees as specified in Schedule III with the Board.
(2)    The  lead  manager(s)  shall  submit  the  following  to  the  Board  along  with  the  draft  letter  of offer: a)  a  certificate,  confirming  that  an  agreement  has  been  entered  into  between  the  issuer  and the lead manager(s) and includes content specified in Schedule II; b)  a due diligence certificate as per Form A of Schedule V; c)  in  case  of  an  issue  of  convertible  debt  instruments,  a  due  diligence  certificate  from  the debenture trustee as per Form B of Schedule V; d)  A certificate confirming compliance of the conditions specified in  34[Part F] of Schedule VI, if applicable.
(3)  The issuer shall also file the draft letter of offer with the stock exchange(s) and shall submit to such  stock  exchange(s),  the  Permanent  Account  Number,  bank  account  number  and  passport number  of  its  promoters  where  they  are  individuals,  and  Permanent  Account  Number,  bank account  number,  company  registration  number  or  equivalent  and  the  address  of  the  Registrar  of Companies with which the promoter is registered, where the promoter is a body corporate.
(4)  The Board may specify changes or issue observations, if any, on the draft letter of offer within thirty days from the later of the following dates: (a) the date of receipt of the draft letter of offer, as applicable, under sub-regulation (1); or (b)  the  date  of  receipt  of  satisfactory  reply  from  the  lead  manager(s),  where  the  Board  has sought any clarification or additional information from them; or (c) the date of receipt of clarification or information from any regulator or agency, where the Board has sought any clarification or information from such regulator or agency; or (d) the date of receipt of a copy of in-principle approval letter issued by the stock exchanges.
(5) If the Board specifies any changes or issues observations on the draft letter of offer the issuer and lead manager(s) shall carry out such changes in the draft letter of offer and shall submit to the Board  an  updated  draft  letter  of  offer  complying  with  the  observations  issued  by  the  Board  and highlighting all changes made in the draft letter of offer before filing the letter of offer with the stock exchanges.
(6)  If  there  are  any  changes  in  the  draft  letter  of  offer  in  relation  to  the  matters  specified  in Schedule XVI, an updated letter of offer or a fresh draft letter of offer, as the case may be, shall be filed with the Board along with fees specified in Schedule III.
(7)  The  lead  manager(s)  shall  submit  the  following  documents  to  the  Board  after  issuance  of observations  by  the  Board  or  after  expiry  of  the  period  stipulated  in  sub-regulation  (4)  of regulation 71 if the Board has not issued observations: (a)  a  statement  certifying  that  all  changes,  suggestions  and  observations  made  by  the  Board have been incorporated in the letter of offer; (b) a due diligence certificate as per Form C of Schedule V, at the time of submission of the letter of offer with stock exchange(s); (c) a due diligence certificate as per Form D of Schedule V, in the event the issuer has made a disclosure of any material development by issuing a public notice.
(8) Copy of the letter of offer shall also be filed with the Board and the stock exchanges through the  lead  manager  simultaneously  with  filing  of  the  letter  of  offer  with  the  designated  stock exchange.
(9) The draft letter of offer and letter of offer shall also be furnished to the Board in a soft copy. Draft letter of offer and letter of offer to be available to the public
72. (1) The draft letter of offer filed with the Board shall be made public for comments, if any, for a period of at  least  twenty one days from the date of filing, by hosting it on the websites of the Board,  stock  exchanges  where  specified  securities  are  proposed  to  be  listed  and  the  lead manager(s) associated with the issue.
(2) The issuer shall, within two days of filing of the draft letter of offer with the Board, make a public  announcement  in  one  English  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation,  one  Hindi national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  and  one  regional  language  newspaper  with  wide circulation at the place where the registered office of the issuer is situated, disclosing to the public the fact of filing of the draft letter of offer with the Board and inviting the public to provide their comments to the Board, the issuer or to the lead manager(s) in respect of the disclosures made in the draft letter of offer.
(3) The lead manager(s) shall, after expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (1), file with the  Board,  details  of  the  comments  received  by  them  or  the  issuer  from  the  public,  on  the  draft offer document, during that period and the consequential changes, if any, that are required to be made in the draft offer document.
(4)  The  issuer  and  the  lead  manager(s)    shall  ensure  that  the  letters  of  offer  are  hosted  on  the websites as required under these regulations and its contents are the same as the versions as filed with the Board and the stock exchanges, as applicable. 52
(5) The lead manager(s) and the stock exchanges shall provide copies of the draft letter of offer to the public as and when requested and may charge a reasonable sum  for providing a copy of the same. PART VI: PRICING
73.  (1)  The  issuer  shall  decide  the  issue  price,  in  consultation  with  the  lead  manager(s),  before determining the record date, which shall be determined in consultation with the designated stock exchange.
(2) The issue price shall not be less than the face value of the specified securities.
(3) The issuer shall disclose the issue price in the letter of offer filed with the Board and the stock exchange(s). PART VII: ISSUANCE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURE Reservations
74.  (1)  The  issuer  shall  make  a  rights  issue  of  equity  shares  only  if  it  has  made  reservation  of equity shares of the same class in  favour of the  holders of outstanding compulsorily  convertible debt instruments, if any, in proportion to the convertible part thereof.
(2) The equity shares so reserved for the holders of fully or partly compulsorily convertible debt instruments  shall be issued to  the holder of such  convertible debt  instruments  or warrants  at  the time of conversion of such convertible debt instruments,  on the same terms at which the equity shares offered in the rights issue were issued. 35[Provided that for the purposes of offering such rights entitlements, the issuer company shall not be required to credit rights entitlements.]
(3) Subject to other applicable provision of these regulations, the issuer may make reservation for its  employees  along  with  rights  issue  subject  to  the  condition  that  the  value  of  allotment  to  any employee shall not exceed two lakhs rupees. Provided that in the event of under-subscription in the employee reservation portion, the unsubscribed portion may be allotted on a proportionate basis, for a value in excess of two lakhs rupees, subject to the total allotment to an employee not exceeding five lakhs rupees. Abridged letter of offer
28.09.2020. 53
75. (1) The abridged letter of offer shall contain the disclosures as specified by the Board in Part F of Schedule VI and shall not contain any matter extraneous to the contents of the letter of offer.
(2)  Every  application  form  distributed  by  the  issuer  or  any  other  person  in  relation  to  the  issue shall be accompanied by a copy of the abridged letter of offer.
36[ASBA.
76.  An  applicant  to  the  rights  issue  shall  do  so  only  through  the  ASBA  facility,  which  facility shall be provided by the issuer in the manner specified by the Board: Provided that payment through any other electronic banking mode shall be permitted in respect of an application made for any reserved portion outside the issue period.] Availability of letter of offer and other issue materials
77. (1)  The lead manager(s) shall ensure availability of the letter of offer and other issue material including  application  forms  with  stock  exchanges,  registrar  to  issue,  registrar  and  share  transfer agents,  depository  participants,  stock  brokers,  underwriters,  bankers  to  the  issue,  investors‘ associations and self certified syndicate banks before the opening of the issue.
(2)  The  abridged  letter  of  offer,  along  with  application  form,  shall  be  despatched  through registered post or speed post or by courier service or by electronic transmission to all the existing shareholders at least three days before the date of opening of the issue.
(3)  The  letter  of  offer  shall  also  be  provided  by  the  issuer  or  lead  manager(s)  to  any  existing shareholder who makes a request in this regard. 37[Credit of rights entitlements and allotment of specified securities.
77A. (1) The rights entitlements shall be credited to the demat account of the shareholders before the date of opening of the issue.
(2) Allotment of specified securities shall be made in the dematerialised form only.]
76. The  issuer  shall  provide  the  ASBA  facility  in  the  manner  specified  by  the  Board  where  not  more  than one payment option is provided. Provided  that  the  applicants  in  a  rights  issue  shall  be  eligible  to  make  applications  through  ASBA  facility only if such applicant: (i) is holding equity shares in dematerialised mode; (ii) has not renounced entitlement in part or in full; and (iii) is not a renouncee. Provided further that payment made for application for any reserved portion outside the issue period can be through electronic banking modes.”
26.12.2019. 54 Conditions for making applications on plain paper
78.  (1)  Shareholders  who  have  not  received  the  application  form  may  make  an  application  in writing on a plain paper, along with the requisite application money. 38[Provided that SCSBs shall accept such application forms only if all details required for making the application as per these regulations are specified in the plain paper application.]
(2) Shareholders making an application on plain paper shall not be entitled to renounce their rights and  shall  not  utilise  the  application  form  for  any  purpose  including  renunciation  even  if  it  is received subsequently.
(3) If a shareholder makes an application both in an application form as well as on a plain paper, both applications are liable to be rejected. Prohibition on payment of incentives
79.  Any person connected with the issue, shall not offer any incentive, whether direct or indirect, in  any  manner,  whether  in  cash  or  kind  or  services  or  otherwise  to  any  person  for  making  an application in the rights  issue, except for fees or commission for services rendered in relation to the issue. Security deposit
80.  (1)  The  issuer  shall,  before  the  opening  of  the  subscription  list,  deposit  with  the  designated stock exchange, an amount calculated at the rate of one per cent. of the issue size in the manner specified by the Board and/or stock exchange(s).
(2)    The  amount  specified  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  refundable  or  forfeitable  in  the  manner specified by the Board. Underwriting
81.  (1)  If  the  issuer  desires  to  have  the  issue  underwritten,  it  shall  appoint  underwriters  in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993. Provided that the issue can be underwritten only to the extent of entitlement of shareholders other than the promoters and promoter group.
(2)  In  case  of  every  underwritten  issue,  the  lead  manager(s)  shall  undertake  minimum underwriting  obligations  as  specified  in  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992.
28.09.2020. 55 Monitoring agency
82. (1)  If the issue size exceeds one hundred crore rupees, the issuer shall make arrangements for the use of proceeds of the issue to be monitored by a public financial institution or by a scheduled commercial bank named in the letter of offer as a banker of the issuer: Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to an issue of specified securities made by a bank or public financial institution or an insurance company.
(2) The monitoring agency shall submit its report to the issuer in the format specified in Schedule XI  on  a  quarterly  basis,  till  at  least  ninety  five  per  cent.  of  the  proceeds  of  the  issue  39[actually raised], excluding the proceeds raised for general corporate purposes, have been utilised.
(3) The board of directors and the management of the issuer shall provide their comments on the findings of the monitoring agency as specified in Schedule XI.
(4) The issuer shall, within forty five days from the end of each quarter, publicly disseminate the report  of  the  monitoring  agency  by  uploading  the  same  on  its  website  as  well  as  submitting  the same to the stock exchange(s) on which its equity shares are listed. Public communications, publicity materials, advertisements and research reports.
83.  All  public  communication,  publicity  materials,  advertisements  and  research  reports  shall comply with the provisions of Schedule IX. Issue-related advertisements
84.  (1)  The  issuer  shall  issue  an  advertisement  in  at  least  one  English  national  daily  newspaper with wide circulation, one Hindi national daily newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language daily newspaper with wide circulation, at the place where registered office of the issuer is  situated  40[and  also  give  an  intimation  to  the  stock  exchanges  for  dissemination  on  their websites], at least 41[two] days before the date of opening of the issue, disclosing the following: a)  the date of completion of despatch of abridged letter of offer and the application form; b)  the centres other than registered office of the issuer where the shareholders or the persons entitled  to  receive  the  rights  entitlements  may  obtain  duplicate  copies  of  the  application form  in  case  they  do  not  receive  the  application  form  within  a  reasonable  time  after opening of the rights issue; c)  42[a  statement  that  if  the  shareholders  entitled  to  receive  the  rights  entitlements  have neither  received  the  original  application  forms  nor  are  in  a  position  to  obtain  the  form; they  may  make  an  application  through  the  form  available  on  the  website  of  Registrar, stock exchanges or lead managers or in writing on a plain paper to subscribe to the Rights Issue  along  with  a  format  specifying  therein  the  necessary  particulars  such  as  name, address,  ratio  of  rights  issue,  issue  price,  number  of  equity  shares  held,  ledger  folio numbers, depository participant ID, client ID, number of equity shares entitled and applied for,  additional  shares  if  any,  and  the  amount  to  be  blocked  with  SCSB  along  with  the application]; d)  43[***] e)  a statement to the effect that if the shareholder makes an application using the application form as well as plain paper, both the applications shall be liable to be rejected at the option of the issuer.
(2) During the period the issue is open for subscription, no advertisement shall be released giving an impression that the issue has been fully subscribed or oversubscribed, or indicating investors’ response to the issue.
(3) An announcement regarding closure of issue shall be made only after the lead manager(s) is satisfied that at least ninety per cent. of the offer through letter of offer has been subscribed and a certificate has been obtained to that effect from the registrar to the issue: Provided that such an announcement shall not be made before the date on which the issue is to be closed except for issue closing advertisement made in the format prescribed in these regulations. Opening of the issue
85.  Subject to the compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, a rights issue may be opened within twelve months from the date of issuance of the observations by the Board under regulation 71. Provided  that  in  case  of  a  fast  track  issue,  the  issue  shall  open  within  twelve  months  from  the record date. Minimum subscription
86. (1)  The minimum subscription to be received in the issue shall be at least ninety per cent. of the offer through the offer document. 44[Provided that minimum subscription criteria shall not be applicable to an issuer if: (a) the  object  of  the  issue  involves  financing  other  than  financing  of  capital expenditure for a project; and (b) the promoters and the promoter group of the issuer undertake to subscribe fully to their portion of rights entitlement and do not renounce their rights except to the extent of renunciation within the promoter group.]
(2)  In  the  event  of  non-receipt  of  minimum  subscription  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1),  all application monies received shall be refunded to the applicants forthwith, but not later than fifteen days from the closure of the issue. Period of subscription
87. The rights issue shall be kept open for subscription for a minimum period of fifteen days and for a maximum period of thirty days  45[and no withdrawal of application shall be permitted after the issue closing date]. Payment options
88.  The  issuer  shall  give  one  of  the  following  payment  options  to  all  the  shareholders  for  each type of instrument: a) b) part payment on application with balance money to be paid in calls; or full payment on application: Provided that the part payment, if any, on application shall not be less than twenty five per cent. of the issue price and such issuer shall obtain the necessary regulatory approvals to facilitate the same: 46[Provided  further  that  payment  of  balance  money  in  calls,  outside  the  issue  period,  may  be through electronic banking modes.]
28.09.2020.
26.12.2019. 58 Manner of calls
89.  If  the  issuer  proposes  to  receive  subscription  monies  in  calls,  it  shall  ensure  that  the outstanding subscription money is called within twelve months from the date of allotment in the issue  and  if  any  applicant  fails  to  pay  the  call  money  within  the  said  twelve  months,  the  equity shares on which there are calls in arrear along with the subscription money already paid on such shares shall be forfeited: Provided further that  it shall not  be necessary to  call the outstanding subscription money  within twelve months, if the issuer has appointed a monitoring agency in terms of regulation 82. Allotment procedure and basis of allotment
90. (1) The issuer shall not make any allotment in excess of the specified securities offered through the letter of offer47[, except as provided in regulation 74(1) and (2)].
(2) Allotment shall be made in the following manner: a)  Full allotment to those eligible shareholders who have applied for their rights entitlement either in full or in part and also to the renouncee(s), who has/have applied for the specified securities renounced in their favour, in full or in part, as adjusted for fractional entitlement b)  Allotment to eligible shareholders who having applied for the specified securities in full to the  extent  of  their  rights  entitlement  and  have  also  applied  for  additional  specified securities, shall be made as far as possible on an equitable basis having due regard to the number of specified securities held by them on the record date, provided there is an under- subscribed portion after making allotment in (a) above. c)  Allotment to the renouncees, who having applied for the specified securities renounced in their favour and also applied for additional specified securities, provided there is an under- subscribed  portion  after  making  full  allotment  specified  in  (a)  and  (b)  above.  The allotment of such additional specified securities may be made on a proportionate basis.
(3)  The authorised employees of the designated stock exchange along with  the lead manager(s) and registrars to the issue shall ensure that the basis of allotment is finalised in a fair and proper manner as may be prescribed by the Board.
26.12.2019.
28.09.2020. 59 Allotment, refund and payment of interest
91. (1) The issuer and lead manager(s) shall ensure that the specified securities are allotted and/or application  monies  are  refunded  or  unblocked  within  such  period  as  may  be  specified  by  the Board.
(2)  The  lead  manager(s)  shall  ensure  that  the  allotment,  credit  of  dematerialised  securities, refunding or unblocking of application monies, as may be applicable, are done electronically.
(3) Where the specified  securities are not  allotted and/or application monies are not  refunded or unblocked  within  the  period  stipulated  in  sub-regulation  (1)  above,  the  issuer  shall  undertake  to pay  interest  at  the  rate  of  fifteen  per  cent.  per  annum  to  the  shareholders  within  such  time  as disclosed in the draft letter of offer and the letter of offer and the lead manager(s) shall ensure the same. Post-issue advertisements
92.  (1)  The  lead  manager(s)  shall  ensure  that  an  advertisement  giving  details  relating  to subscription,  basis  of  allotment,  number,  value  and  percentage  of  all  applications  including ASBA, number, value and percentage of successful allottees for all applications including ASBA, date  of  completion  of  despatch  of  refund  orders,  as  applicable,  or  instructions  to  self-  certified syndicate  banks  by  the  Registrar,  date  of  despatch  of  certificates  or  date  of  credit  of  specified securities, as  applicable, and date of filing of listing application, etc. is  released within ten days from  the  date  of  completion  of  the  various  activities  in  at  least  one  English  national  daily newspaper  with  wide  circulation,  one  Hindi  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  and one regional language daily newspaper with wide circulation at the place where registered office of the issuer is situated.
(2)  Details  specified  in  sub  regulation  (1)  shall  also  be  placed  on  the  websites  of  the  stock exchanges where the securities are listed. Post-issue responsibilities of the lead manager(s)
93.  (1)  The  responsibility  of  the  lead  manager(s)  shall  continue  until  completion  of  the  issue process and for any issue related matter thereafter.
(2)  The lead manager(s) shall regularly monitor redressal of investor grievances arising from any issue related activities.
(3) The  lead  manager(s)    shall  continue  to  be  responsible  for  post-issue  activities  till  the applicants  have  received  the  securities  certificates,  credit  to  their  demat  account  or  refund  of 60 application monies and the listing agreement is entered into by the issuer with the stock exchange and listing or trading permission is obtained.
(4)  The  lead  manager(s)  shall  be  responsible  for  and  co-ordinate  with  the  registrars  to  the  issue and  with  various  intermediaries  at  regular  intervals  after  the  closure  of  the  issue  to  monitor  the flow  of  applications  from  48[***]  self-certified  syndicate  banks,  processing  of  the  applications including  application  form  for  ASBA  and  other  matters  till  the  basis  of  allotment  is  finalised, 49[***]  credit  of  the  specified  securities  to  the  dematerialised  accounts  of  the  allottees,  as applicable  and  unblocking  of  ASBA  accounts/  despatch  of  refund  orders  are  completed  and securities are listed, as applicable.
(5) Any act of omission or commission on the part of any of the intermediaries noticed by the lead manager(s) shall be duly reported by them to the Board.
(6) In case there is a devolvement on underwriters, the lead manager(s) shall ensure that the notice for devolvement containing the obligation of the underwriters is issued within ten days from the date of closure of the issue.
(7)  In  case  of  undersubscribed  issues  that  are  underwritten,  the  lead  manager(s)  shall  furnish information  to  the  Board  in  respect  of  underwriters  who  have  failed  to  meet  their  underwriting devolvement in the format specified in Schedule XVIII. Release of subscription money
94. (1) The lead manager(s) shall confirm to the bankers to the issue by way of copies of listing and  trading  approvals  that  all  formalities  in  connection  with  the  issue  have  been  completed  and that the banker is free to release the money to the issuer or release the money for refund in case of failure of the issue.
(2) In case the issuer fails to obtain listing or trading permission from the stock exchanges where the  specified  securities  were  listed,  it  shall  refund  through  verifiable  means  the  entire  monies received within seven days of receipt of intimation from stock exchanges rejecting the application for listing of specified securities,  and if any such money is not repaid within eight days after the issuer becomes liable to repay it the issuer and every director of the company who is an officer in default shall, on and from the expiry of the eighth day, be jointly and severally liable to repay that money with interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum.
28.09.2020. Prior to omission it read as “collecting bank branches and/ or”.
28.09.2020. Prior to omission it read as “despatch of security certificates or”. 61
(3)    The  lead  manager(s)  shall  ensure  that  the  monies  received  in  respect  of  the  rights  issue  are released  to  the  issuer  in  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  sub-section  (3)  of  section  40  of  the Companies Act, 2013, as applicable. Reporting of transactions of the promoters and promoter group
95.  The issuer shall ensure that all transactions in securities by the promoters and promoter group between the date of filing of the draft letter of offer or letter of offer, as the case may be, and the date of closure of the issue shall be reported to the stock exchanges where the specified securities of the issuer are to be listed, within twenty four hours of such transactions. Post-issue reports
96.  The lead manager(s) shall submit post-issue reports as follows: a) initial post-issue report as specified in Part B of Schedule XVII, within three working days of closure of the issue; b) final post-issue report as specified in  Part C of Schedule XVII, within fifteen days of the date of finalization of basis of allotment or within fifteen days of refund of money in case of failure of the issue. PART VIII: MISCELLEANEOUS Restriction on further capital issues
97.  An issuer shall not make any further issue of specified securities in any manner whether by way  of  public  issue,  rights  issue,  preferential  issue,  qualified  institutions  placement,  issue  of bonus shares or otherwise, except pursuant to an employee stock option scheme: a) in  case of a fast  track issue, during the period between the date of  filing the letter of offer with the stock exchanges where the securities are proposed to be listed and the listing of the specified securities offered through the letter of offer or refund of application monies; or b) in case of other issues, during the period between the date of filing the draft letter of offer with the Board and the listing of the specified securities offered through the letter of offer or refund of application monies; unless full disclosures regarding the total number of specified securities or amount proposed to be raised from such further issue are made in such draft letter of offer or letter of offer, as the case may be. Alteration of rights of holders of specified securities 62
98.  The issuer shall not alter the terms (including the terms of issue) of specified securities which may  adversely  affect  the  interests  of  the  holders  of  those  specified  securities,  except  with  the consent  in  writing  of the holders of not  less than three-fourths  of the specified securities of that class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a meeting of the holders of the specified securities of that class. PART IX: FAST TRACK RIGHTS ISSUE Eligibility conditions
99.    Unless  otherwise  specified,  nothing  contained  in  sub-regulations  (1),  (2),  (4)  and  (5)  of regulation 71 shall apply if the issuer satisfies the following conditions for making a rights issue through the fast track route - a)  the equity shares of the issuer have been listed on any stock exchange for a period of at least three years immediately preceding the reference date; b)  the entire shareholding of the promoter group of the issuer is held in dematerialised form on the reference date; c)  the average market capitalisation of public shareholding of the issuer is at least two hundred and fifty crore rupees; d)  the annualised trading turnover of the equity shares of the issuer during six calendar months immediately preceding the month of the reference date has been at least two per cent. of the weighted average number of equity shares listed during such six months‘ period: Provided that for issuers, whose public shareholding is less than fifteen per cent. of its issued equity  capital,  the  annualised  trading  turnover  of  its  equity  shares  has  been  at  least  two  per cent. of the weighted average number of equity shares available as free float during such six months‘ period; e)  the annualized delivery-based trading turnover of the equity shares during six calendar months immediately  preceding  the  month  of  the  reference  date  has  been  at  least  ten  per  cent.  of  the annualized trading turnover of equity shares during such six months‘ period; f)  the  issuer  has  been  in  compliance  with  the  equity  listing  agreement  or  the  Securities  and Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations, 2015,  as  applicable,  for  a  period  of  at  least  three  years  immediately  preceding  the  reference date: Provided that if the issuer has not complied with the provisions of the listing agreement or the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as applicable, relating to composition of board of directors, for any quarter 63 during  the  last  three  years  immediately  preceding  the  reference  date,  but  is  compliant  with such provisions at the time of filing of letter of offer, and adequate disclosures are made in the letter of offer  about  such non-compliances during the three  years immediately  preceding the reference date, it shall be deemed as compliance with the condition; Provided further that imposition of only monetary fines by stock exchanges on the issuer shall not be a ground for ineligibility for undertaking issuances under this regulation; g)  the  issuer  has  redressed  at  least  ninety  five  per  cent.  of  the  complaints  received  from  the investors till the end of the quarter immediately preceding the month of the reference date; h)  50[that  no  show-cause  notices,  excluding  proceedings  for  imposition  of  penalty,  have  been issued by the Board and pending against the issuer or its promoters or whole-time directors as on the reference date.; In cases where against the issuer or its promoters or whole-time directors, i)  show-cause  notice(s)  has  been  issued  by  the  Board  in  a  proceeding  for  imposition  of penalty; or ii) prosecution proceedings have been initiated by the Board; necessary disclosures in  respect of such  action(s) along-with  its potential  adverse impact on the issuer shall be made in the letter of offer.]; i) the issuer or promoter or promoter group or director of the issuer has not settled any alleged violation  of  securities  laws  through  the  consent  or  settlement  mechanism  with  the  Board during three years immediately preceding the reference date; j) the equity shares of the issuer have not been suspended from trading as a disciplinary measure during last three years immediately preceding the reference date; k)  there shall be no conflict  of interest  between the lead manager(s) and the issuer or its  group companies  in accordance with the applicable regulations. l) the promoters and promoter group shall mandatorily subscribe to their rights entitlement and shall not renounce their rights, except to the extent of renunciation within the promoter group or  for  the  purpose  of  complying  with  minimum  public  shareholding  norms  prescribed  under the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957; m)  51[for audit qualifications,  if any, in  respect  of any of the financial  years  for which  accounts are  disclosed  in  the  letter  of  offer,  the  issuer  shall  provide  the  restated  financial  statements adjusting for the impact of the audit qualifications. Further, that for the qualifications wherein impact on the financials cannot be ascertained the same shall be disclosed appropriately in the letter of offer.] (i)  “average  market  capitalisation  of  public  shareholding”  means  the  sum  of  daily  market capitalisation  of  public  shareholding  for  a  period  of  one  year  up  to  the  end  of  the  quarter preceding  the  month  in  which  the  proposed  issue  was  approved  by  the  shareholders  or  the board of the issuer, as the case may be, divided by the number of trading days. (ii) “public shareholding” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957. (iii)  “reference  date”  means  the  date  of  filing  the  letter  of  offer  with  the  designated  stock exchange. (iv)  “audit  qualifications”  for  this  regulation  shall  be  those  disclosed  under  applicable accounting standard relating to modification to the opinion in the independent auditor’s report and  requires  a  qualified  opinion,  adverse  opinion  or  disclaimer  of  opinion  for  material misstatements. Issue conditions
100.  (1)  The  issuer  shall  file  the  letter  of  offer    in  accordance  with  sub-regulation  8  and  9  of regulation 71 and shall pay fees to the Board as specified in Schedule III.
(2) The lead manager(s) shall submit to the Board, the following documents along with the letter of offer: (a) a  due  diligence  certificate  as  per  Form  A  of  Schedule  V  including  additional confirmations as specified in Form E of Schedule V; (b) in  case  of  a  fast  track  issue  of  convertible  debt  instruments,  a  due  diligence certificate from the debenture trustee as per Form B of Schedule V. CHAPTER IV - FURTHER PUBLIC OFFER PART I: ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS Reference date
101.  Unless  otherwise  provided  in  this  Chapter,  an  issuer  making  a  further  public  offer  of specified securities shall satisfy the conditions of this Chapter as on the date of filing of the draft offer  document  with  the  Board  and  also  as  on  the  date  of  52[filing]  the  offer  document  with  the Registrar of Companies. Entities not eligible to make a further public offer
102. An issuer shall not be eligible to make a further public offer: (a) if  the  issuer,  any  of  its  promoters,  promoter  group  or  directors,  selling  shareholders  are debarred from accessing the capital market by the Board; (b) if  any  of  the  promoters  or  directors  of  the  issuer  is  a  promoter  or  director  of  any  other company which is debarred from accessing the capital market by the Board; (c) (d) if the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a wilful defaulter ; if any of its promoters or directors is a fugitive economic offender. mentioned  therein,  who  were  debarred  in  the  past  by  the  Board  and  the  period  of  debarment  is already over as on the date of filing of the draft offer document with the Board. Eligibility requirements for further public offer
103. (1)  An issuer may make a further public offer, if it has changed its name within the last one year,  at  least  fifty per cent.  of the revenue for the preceding one full  year has been earned by it from the activity indicated by its new name.
(2)   An issuer not satisfying the condition stipulated in sub-regulation (1) may make a further public offer only if the issue is made through the book-building process and the issuer undertakes to  allot  at  least  seventy  five  per  cent.  of  the  net  offer,  to  qualified  institutional  buyers  and  to refund  full  subscription  money  if  it  fails  to  make  the  said  minimum  allotment  to  qualified institutional buyers. General conditions
104. (1) An issuer making a further public offer shall ensure that - (a) it has made an application to one or more stock exchanges to seek an in-principle approval for listing of its specified securities on such stock exchanges and has chosen one of them as the designated stock exchange, in terms of Schedule XIX; (b) it  has  entered  into  an  agreement  with  a  depository  for  dematerialisation  of  specified securities already issued and proposed to be issued; (c)  all  its  existing  partly  paid-up  equity  shares  have  either  been  fully  paid-up  or  have  been forfeited; (d) it has made firm arrangements of finance through verifiable means towards seventy five per cent. of the stated means of finance for the specific project proposed to be funded from the issue  proceeds,  excluding  the  amount  to  be  raised  through  the  proposed  public  issue  or through existing identifiable internal accruals.
(2) The amount for  general  corporate purposes, as mentioned in  objects  of the issue in  the draft offer document and the offer document, shall not exceed twenty five per cent. of the amount being raised by the issuer. proposed to be raised to cover the objects of the issue. Additional conditions for an offer for sale
105. Only such fully paid-up equity shares may be offered for sale to public which have been held by the selling shareholder(s) for a period of at least one year prior to the filing of the draft offer document: Provided further that such holding period of one year shall be required to be complied with at the time of filing of the draft offer document. Provided  that  in  case  the  equity  shares  received  on  conversion  or  exchange  of  fully  paid-up compulsorily  convertible  securities  including  depository  receipts  are  being  offered  for  sale,  the holding  period  of  such  convertible  securities,  including  depository  receipts,  as  well  as  that  of resultant  equity  shares  together  shall  be  considered  for  the  purpose  of  calculation  of  one  year period referred in this sub-regulation. compulsorily convertible securities are being offered for sale, the conversion or exchange should be completed prior to filing of the offer document (i.e. red herring prospectus in the case of a book built issue and prospectus in the case of a fixed price issue), provided full disclosures of the terms of conversion or exchange are made in the draft offer document. Provided further that  the requirement  of holding  the equity shares for a period of one  year shall not apply: 67 a) in case of an offer for sale of a government company or statutory authority or corporation or any  special  purpose  vehicle  set  up  and  controlled  by  any  one  or  more  of  them,  which  is engaged in the infrastructure sector; b) if  the  equity  shares  offered  for  sale  were  acquired  pursuant  to  any  scheme  approved  by  a High  Court  under  the  sections  391  to  394  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956,  or  approved  by  a tribunal  or  the  Central  Government  under  the  sections  230  to  234  of  the  Companies  Act, 2013, as applicable, in lieu of business and invested capital which had been in existence for a period of more than one year prior to approval of such scheme; c) if the equity shared offered for sale were issued under a bonus issue on securities held for a period of at least one year prior to the filing of the draft offer document with the Board and further subject to the following: (i)  such specified securities being issued out of free reserves and share premium existing in the books of account as at the end of the financial year preceding the financial year in which the draft offer document is filed with the Board; and (ii) such equity shares not being issued by utilisation of revaluation reserves or unrealized profits of the issuer. PART II: ISSUE OF CONVERTIBLE DEBT INSTRUMENTS AND WARRANTS
106. An issuer shall be eligible to make a further public offer of convertible debt instruments if its equity shares are already listed; Provided  that  it  is  not  in  default  in  payment  of  interest  or  repayment  of  principal  amount  in respect of debt instruments issued by it to the public, if any, for a period of more than six months. Additional requirements for issue of convertible debt instruments
107.  (1)  In  addition  to  other  requirements  laid  down  in  these  regulations,  an  issuer  making  a public issue of convertible debt instruments shall also comply with the following conditions: a) it  has  obtained  credit  rating  for  such  convertible  debt  instrument  from  one  or  more  credit rating agencies; b) it  has  appointed  at  least  one  debenture  trustee  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the Companies Act, 2013 and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993; c) it  shall  create  a  debenture  redemption  reserve  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder; 68 d) if  the  issuer  proposes  to  create  a  charge  or  security  on  its  assets  in  respect  of  secured convertible debt instruments, it shall ensure that: i)       such assets are sufficient to discharge the principal amount at all times; ii) such assets are free from any encumbrance; iii)  where  security  is  already  created  on  such  assets  in  favour  of  public  financial institutions or scheduled commercial banks or the issue of convertible debt instruments is  proposed  to  be  secured  by  creation  of  security  on  a  leasehold  land,  the  consent  of such public financial institution, scheduled commercial bank or lessor for a second or pari passu charge has been obtained and submitted to the debenture trustee before the opening of the issue; iv) the security or asset cover shall be arrived at after reduction of the liabilities having a first or prior charge, in case the convertible debt instruments are secured by a second or subsequent charge.
(2) The issuer shall redeem the convertible debt instruments in terms of the offer document. Roll over of non-convertible portion of partly convertible debt instruments
108. The non-convertible portion of partly convertible debt instruments issued by a listed issuer, the value of which exceeds ten crore rupees, may be rolled over, subject to compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013  and the following conditions: (a)  seventy  five  per  cent.  of  the  holders  (in  value)  of  the  convertible  debt  instruments  of  the issuer have, through a resolution, approved the rollover through postal ballot; (b) the  issuer  has,  along  with  the  notice  for  passing  the  resolution,  sent  to  all  holders  of  the convertible debt instruments, an auditors’ certificate on the cash flow of the issuer and with comments on the liquidity position of the issuer; (c) the issuer has undertaken to redeem the non-convertible portion of the partly convertible debt instruments of all the holders of the convertible debt instruments who have not agreed to the resolution; (d)  credit  rating  has  been  obtained  from  at  least  one  credit  rating  agency  registered  with  the Board  within  a  period  of  one  month  prior  to  the  due  date  of  redemption  and  has  been communicated to the holders of the convertible debt instruments, before the roll over.
(2) The creation of fresh security and execution of fresh trust deed shall not be mandatory if the existing  trust  deed  or  the  security  documents  provide  for  continuance  of  the  security  till redemption of secured convertible debt instruments: Provided that the debenture trustee shall decide if the issuer is required to create fresh security and to execute fresh trust deed. 69 Conversion of optionally convertible debt instruments into equity share capital
109. (1) The issuer shall not convert its optionally convertible debt instruments into equity shares unless  the  holders  of  such  convertible  debt  instruments  have  sent  their  positive  consent  to  the issuer  and  non-receipt  of  reply  to  any  notice  sent  by  the  issuer  for  this  purpose  shall  not  be construed as consent for conversion of any convertible debt instruments.
(2) Where the value of the convertible portion of any listed convertible debt instruments issued by an issuer exceeds ten crore rupees and the issuer has not determined the conversion price of such convertible debt instruments at the time of making the issue, the holders of such convertible debt instruments shall be given the option of not converting the convertible portion into equity shares: Provided that where the upper limit or conversion formula on the price of such convertible debt instruments  and  justification  thereon  is  determined  and  disclosed  to  the  investors  at  the  time  of making  the  issue,  it  shall  not  be  necessary  to  give  such  option  to  the  holders  of  the  convertible debt  instruments  for  converting  the  convertible  portion  into  equity  share  capital  within  the  said upper limit.
(3) Where an option is to be given to the holders of the convertible debt instruments in terms of sub-regulation  (2)  and  if  one  or  more  of  such  holders  do  not  exercise  the  option  to  convert  the instruments  into  equity  share  capital  at  a  price  determined  in  the  general  meeting  of  the shareholders, the issuer shall redeem that part of the instruments within one month from the last date by which option is to be exercised, at a price which shall not be less than its face value.
(4) The  provisions  of  sub-regulation  (3)  shall  not  apply  if  such  redemption  is  in  terms  of  the disclosures made in the offer document. Issue of convertible debt instruments for financing
110.  An issuer shall not issue convertible debt instruments for financing or for providing loans to or for acquiring shares of any person who is part of the promoter group or group companies: Provided  that  an  issuer  shall  be  eligible  to  issue  fully  convertible  debt  instruments  for  these purposes if the period of conversion of such debt instruments is less than eighteen months from the date of issue of such debt instruments. Issue of warrants
111.  An issuer shall be eligible to issue warrants in a further public offer subject to the following conditions: (a) the tenure of such warrants shall not exceed eighteen months from the date of their allotment in the public issue; 70 (b)  a specified security may have one or more warrants attached to it; (c) the price or formula for determination of exercise price of the warrants shall be determined upfront and at least twenty-five per cent. of the consideration amount based on the exercise price shall also be received upfront; Provided that in  case the exercise price of warrants  is  based on a formula, twenty-five per cent.  consideration  amount  based  on  the  cap  price  of  the  price  band  determined  for  the linked equity shares or convertible securities shall be received upfront. (d) in case the warrant holder does not exercise the option to take equity shares against any of the warrants held by  the warrant holder, within  three months from the date of payment  of consideration, such consideration made in respect of such warrants shall be forfeited by the issuer. PART III:  PROMOTERS’ CONTRIBUTION Requirement of minimum promoters’ contribution not applicable in certain cases
112.  The requirements of minimum promoters’ contribution shall not apply in case of: (a)  an issuer which does not have any identifiable promoter; (b)  where the equity shares of the issuer are frequently  traded on a stock exchange for a period of at least three years and the issuer has a track record of dividend payment for at least three immediately preceding years: Provided that where the promoters propose to subscribe to the specified securities offered to the extent greater than higher of the two options available in clause (a) of sub-regulation (1) of  regulation  113,  the  subscription  in  excess  of  such  percentage  shall  be  made  at  a  price determined  in  terms  of  the  provisions  of  regulation  164  or  the  issue  price,  whichever  is higher. Board and in case of a fast track issue, the date of filing the offer document with the Registrar of Companies, and before opening of the issue. Minimum promoters’ contribution
113. (1) The promoters shall contribute in the public issue as follows: a) either to the extent of twenty per cent. of the proposed issue size or to the extent of twenty per cent. of the post-issue capital; 71 b) in case of a composite issue (i.e. further public offer cum rights issue), either to the extent of twenty per cent.  of the proposed issue size or to the extent of twenty per  cent.  of the post- issue capital excluding the rights issue component.
(2) In case of a public issue or composite issue of convertible securities, the minimum promoters’ contribution shall be as follows: a) the  promoters  shall  contribute  twenty  per  cent.  as  stipulated  in  clause  (a)  or  (b)  of  sub- regulation (1), as the case may be, either by way of equity shares or by way of subscription to the convertible securities: Provided  that  if  the  price  of  the  equity  shares  allotted  pursuant  to  conversion  is  not  pre- determined and not disclosed in the offer document, the promoters shall contribute only by way  of  subscription  to  the  convertible  securities  being  issued  in  the  public  issue  and  shall undertake  in  writing  to  subscribe  to  the  equity  shares  pursuant  to  conversion  of  such securities. b) in  case  of  any  issue  of  convertible  securities  which  are  convertible  or  exchangeable  on different  dates  and  if  the  promoters’  contribution  is  by  way  of  equity  shares  (conversion price  being  pre-determined),  such  contribution  shall  not  be  at  a  price  lower  than  the weighted  average  price  of  the  equity  share  capital  arising  out  of  conversion  of  such securities.
(3) In case of a further public offer or composite issue where the promoters contribute more than the stipulated minimum promoters’ contribution, the allotment with respect to excess contribution shall be made at a price determined in terms of the provisions of regulation 164 or the issue price, whichever is higher.
(4)  In  case  the  promoters  have  to  subscribe  to  equity  shares  or  convertible  securities  towards promoters’ contribution, the promoters shall satisfy the requirements of this regulation at least one day prior to the date of opening of the issue and the amount of promoters’ contribution shall be kept in an escrow account with a scheduled commercial bank and shall be released to the issuer along with the release of the issue proceeds: Provided further that where the minimum promoters’ contribution is more than one hundred crore rupees and the  further public offer is  for partly  paid  shares, the promoters shall bring in  at  least one hundred crore rupees before the date of opening of the issue and the remaining amount may be brought on a pro-rata basis before the calls are made to the public. 72
53[(5)  The  SR  equity  shares  of  promoters,  if  any,  shall  be  eligible  towards  computation  of minimum promoters’ contribution.] (I)  For the purpose of this regulation, promoters’ contribution shall be computed on the basis of the post-issue expanded capital: (a)  assuming full proposed conversion of convertible securities into equity shares; (b)  assuming  exercise  of  all  vested  options,  where  any  employee  stock  options  are outstanding at the time of further public offer. (II)  For computation of “weighted average price”: (a)  “weight” means the number of equity shares arising out of conversion of such specified securities into equity shares at various stages; (b)  “price”  means  the  price  of  equity  shares  on  conversion  arrived  at  after  taking  into account predetermined conversion price at various stages. Securities ineligible for minimum promoters’ contribution
114.  (1)  For  the  computation  of  minimum  promoters’  contribution,  the  following  specified securities shall not be eligible: (a)  specified securities acquired during the preceding three years, if these are: i)  acquired  for  consideration  other  than  cash  and  revaluation  of  assets  or  capitalisation  of intangible assets is involved in such transaction; or ii)  resulting from a bonus issue by utilisation of revaluation reserves or unrealised profits of the  issuer  or  from  bonus  issue  against  equity  shares  which  are  ineligible  for  minimum promoters’ contribution; (b)  specified securities pledged with any creditor other than those for borrowings by the issuer or its subsidiaries.
(2)    Specified  securities  referred  to  in  clauses  (a)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  eligible  for  the computation  of  promoters’  contribution,  if  such  securities  are  acquired  pursuant  to  a  scheme which has been approved by the High Court under section 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956 or approved by a tribunal or the Central Government under section 230 to 234 of the Companies Act, 2013. PART IV: LOCK-IN AND RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFERABILITY Lock-in of specified securities held by the promoters
115. The specified securities held by the promoters shall not be transferable (hereinafter referred to as “locked-in”) for the periods as stipulated hereunder: (a)  minimum  promoters’  contribution  including  contribution  made  by  alternative  investment funds,  or  foreign  venture  capital  investors,  as  applicable,  shall  be  locked-in  for  a  period  of three  years  from  the  date  of  commencement  of  commercial  production  or  from  the  date  of allotment in the further public offer, whichever is later; (b)  promoters’  holding  in  excess  of  minimum  promoters’  contribution  shall  be  locked-in  for  a period of one year: 54[(c)  The  SR  equity  shares  shall  be  under  lock-in  until  their  conversion  to  equity  shares  having voting rights same as that of ordinary shares, provided they are in compliance with the other provisions of these regulations.] Provided  that  the  excess  promoters’  contribution  as  provided  in  the  proviso  to  clause  (b)  of regulation 112 shall not be subject to lock-in. commercial production" means the last date of the month in which commercial production of the project  in  respect  of  which  the  funds  raised  are  proposed  to  be  utilised  as  stated  in  the  offer document, is expected to commence. Lock-in of specified securities lent to stabilising agent under green shoe option
116. The lock-in provisions of this part shall not apply with respect to the specified securities lent to stabilising agent for the purpose of green shoe option, during the period starting from the date of lending of such specified securities and ending on the date on which they  are returned to  the lender in terms of sub-regulation (5) or (6) of regulation 153: Provided that the specified securities shall be locked-in for the remaining period from the date on which they are returned to the lender. Lock-in of party-paid securities
117. Where the specified securities which are subject to lock-in are partly paid-up and the amount called-up on such specified securities is less than the amount called-up on the specified securities issued  to  the  public,  the  lock-in  shall  end  only  on  the  expiry  of  three  years  after  such  specified securities have become pari passu with the specified securities issued to the public. Inscription or recording of non-transferability
118.  The  certificates  of  specified  securities  which  are  subject  to  lock-in  shall  contain  the inscription “non- transferable” and specify the lock-in period and in case such specified securities are dematerialised, the issuer shall ensure that the lock-in is recorded by the depository. Pledge of locked-in specified securities
119. Specified securities  55[, except SR equity shares,]  held by the promoters and locked in may be pledged as  collateral security for a loan granted by a scheduled commercial bank or a public financial  institution  or  a  systemically  important  non-banking  finance  company  or  a  housing finance company, subject to the following: a)  if the specified securities are locked-in in terms of clause (a) of regulation 115,  the loan has been granted to the issuer company or its subsidiary/subsidiaries for the purpose of financing one or more of the objects of the issue and pledge of specified securities is one of the terms of sanction of the loan b)  if the specified securities are locked-in in terms of clause (b) of regulation 115 and the pledge of specified securities is one of the terms of sanction of the loan. Transferability of locked-in specified securities
120.    Subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial Acquisition  of  shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011,  the  specified  securities56[,  except  SR equity  shares,]  held  by  the  promoters  and  locked-in  as  per  regulation  115  may  be  transferred  to another promoter or any person of the promoter group or a new promoter or a person in control of the issuer: Provided that lock-in on such specified securities shall continue for the remaining period with the transferee  and  such  transferee  shall  not  be  eligible  to  transfer  them  till  the  lock-in  period stipulated in these regulations has expired. PART V: APPOINTMENT OF LEAD MANAGERS, OTHER INTERMEDIARIES AND COMPLIANCE OFFICER
121.  (1)  The  issuer  shall  appoint  one  or  more  merchant  bankers,  which  are  registered  with  the Board, as lead manager(s) to the issue.
(2)  Where  the  issue  is  managed  by  more  than  one  lead  manager,  the  rights,  obligations  and responsibilities, relating inter alia to disclosures, allotment, refund and underwriting obligations, if any, of each lead manager shall be predetermined and be disclosed in the draft offer document and the offer document as specified in Schedule I:
(3) At least one lead manager to the issue shall not be an associate [as defined under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992] of the issuer and if any of the lead managers is an associate of the issuer, it shall disclose  itself as an associate of the issuer and its role shall be limited to the marketing of the issue.
(4) The issuer shall, in consultation with the lead manager(s), appoint other intermediaries which are registered with the Board after the lead manager(s) have independently assessed the capability of other intermediaries to carry out their obligations.
(5)  The issuer shall enter into an agreement with the lead manager(s) in the format specified in Schedule II and enter into agreements with other intermediaries as required under the respective regulations applicable to the intermediary concerned: Provided  that  such  agreements  may  include  such  other  clauses  as  the  issuer  and  the intermediaries  may  deem  fit  without  diminishing  or  limiting  in  any  way  the  liabilities  and obligations  of  the  lead  manager(s),  other  intermediaries  and  the  issuer  under  the  Act,  the Companies  Act,  2013  or  the  Companies  Act,  1956  (to  the  extent  applicable),  the  Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the Depositories Act, 1996 and the rules and regulations made thereunder or any statutory modification or statutory enactment thereof: Provided  further  that  in  case  of  ASBA  process,  the  issuer  shall  take  cognisance  of  the  deemed agreement of the issuer with the self-certified syndicate banks.
(6)  The  issuer  shall,  in  the  case  of  an  issue  made  through  the  book  building  process,  appoint syndicate member(s) and in the case of any other issue, appoint bankers to an issue, at centres as specified in Schedule XII.
(7)  The  issuer  shall  appoint  a  registrar  to  the  issue,  registered  with  the  Board,  which  has connectivity with all the depositories: Provided that if issuer itself is a registrar, it shall not appoint itself as a registrar to the issue: Provided further that the lead manager shall not act as a registrar to the issue in which it is also handling the post-issue responsibilities.
(8)  The  issuer  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be  responsible  for  monitoring  the compliance of the securities laws and for redressal of investors’ grievances. 76 PART VI: DISCLOSURES IN AND FILING OF OFFER DOCUMENTS Disclosures in the draft offer document and the offer document
122.  (1)  The  draft  offer  document  and  the  offer  document  shall  contain  all  material  disclosures which are true and adequate to enable the applicants to take an informed investment decision.
(2)  Without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of  sub-regulation  (1),  the  red-herring  prospectus,  shelf prospectus and prospectus shall contain: (i)  disclosures specified in the Companies Act, 2013; and (ii)  disclosures specified in Part A of Schedule VI, subject to the provisions of Parts C and D thereof.
(3)  The  lead  manager(s)  shall  exercise  due  diligence  and  satisfy  themselves  about  all  aspects  of the issue including the veracity and adequacy of disclosures made in the draft offer document and the offer document.
(4) The lead manager(s) shall call upon the issuer, its promoters and its directors or in case of an offer for sale, the selling shareholders, to fulfil their obligations as disclosed by them in the draft offer document and the offer document and as required in terms of these Regulations.
(5) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the information contained in the offer document and the particulars as per audited financial statements in the offer document are not more than six months old from the issue opening date. Filing of the draft offer document and offer documents
123. (1) Prior to making a further public offer, the issuer shall file three copies  of the  draft offer document  with  the  concerned  regional  office  of  the  Board  under  the  jurisdiction  of  which  the registered  office  of  the  issuer  company  is  located,  in  accordance  with  Schedule  IV,  along  with fees as specified in Schedule III, through the lead manager(s).
(2)  The  lead  manager(s)  shall  submit  the  following  to  the  Board  along  with  the  draft  offer document: a)  a  certificate,  confirming  that  an  agreement  has  been  entered  into  between  the  issuer  and the lead manager(s) b)  a due diligence certificate as per Form A of Schedule V; c)  in  case  of  an  issue  of  convertible  debt  instruments,  a  due  diligence  certificate  from  the debenture trustee as per Form B of Schedule V; d)  a certificate confirming compliance of the conditions specified in Part C of Schedule VI.
(3)  The  issuer  shall  also  file  the  draft  offer  document  with  the  stock  exchange(s)  where  the specified  securities  are  proposed  to  be  listed,  and  shall  submit  to  the  stock  exchange(s),  the 77 Permanent  Account  Number, bank account  number and passport number of its promoters where they  are  individuals,  and  Permanent  Account  Number,  bank  account  number,  company registration number or equivalent and the address of the Registrar of Companies with which  the promoter is registered, where the promoter is a body corporate.
(4)    The  Board  may  specify  changes  or  issue  observations  on  the  draft  offer  document  within  a period of thirty days from the later of the following dates: a) b) the date of receipt of the draft offer document under sub-regulation (1); or the  date  of  receipt  of  satisfactory  reply  from  the  lead  manager(s),  where  the  Board  has sought any clarification or additional information from them; or c) the date of receipt of clarification or information from any regulator or agency, where the Board has sought any clarification or information from such regulator or agency; or d) the  date  of  receipt  of  a  copy  of  in-principle  approval  letter  issued  by  the  stock exchange(s).
(5)  If the Board specifies changes or issues observations on the draft offer document,  the issuer and the lead manager(s) shall carry out such changes in the draft offer document and shall submit to  the  Board  an  updated  draft  offer  document  complying  with  the  observations  issued  by  the Board and highlighting all changes made in the draft offer document before 57[***] filing the offer documents with the Registrar of Companies or the appropriate authority, as applicable.
(6)  If  there  are  any  changes  in  the  draft  offer  document  in  relation  to  the  matters  specified  in Schedule XVI, the updated offer document or a fresh draft offer document, as the case may be, shall be filed with the Board along with fees specified in Schedule III.
(7)  Copy  of  the  offer  documents  shall  also  be  filed  with  the  Board  and  the  stock  exchanges through the lead manager(s) simultaneously while 58[filing] the offer documents with Registrar of Companies.
(8) The draft offer document and the offer document shall also be furnished to the Board in a soft copy in the manner as may be specified.
(9)  The  lead  manager(s)  shall  submit  the  following  documents  to  the  Board  after  issuance  of observations  by  the  Board  or  after  expiry  of  the  period  stipulated  in  sub-regulation  (4)  of regulation 123 if the Board has not issued observations: a)  a  statement  certifying  that  all  changes,  suggestions  and  observations  made  by  the  Board have been incorporated in the offer document; b)  a  due  diligence  certificate  as  per  Form  C  of  Schedule  V,  at  the  time  of  59[filing]  of  the offer document; c)  a copy of the resolution passed by the board of directors of the issuer for allotting specified securities  to  promoters  towards  amount  received  against  promoters’  contribution,  before opening of the issue; d)  a  certificate  from  a  Chartered  Accountant,  before  opening  of  the  issue,  certifying  that promoters’  contribution  has  been  received  in  accordance  with  these  regulations, accompanying therewith the names and addresses of the promoters who have contributed to the promoters’ contribution and the amount paid and credited to the bank account of the issuer by each of them towards such contribution; e)  a due diligence certificate as per Form D of Schedule V, in the event the issuer has made a disclosure of any material development by issuing a public notice. Draft offer document and offer document to be available to the public
124. (1)  The draft offer document filed with the Board shall be made public for comments, if any, for a period of at least twenty one days from the date of filing, by hosting it on the websites of the Board, stock exchanges where specified securities are proposed to be listed and lead manager(s) associated with the issue.
(2)  The issuer shall, within two days of filing the draft offer document with the Board, make a public  announcement  in  one  English  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation,  one  Hindi national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  and  one  regional  language  newspaper  with  wide circulation at the place where the registered office of the issuer is situated, disclosing to the public the fact of filing of the draft offer document with the Board and inviting the public to provide their comments to the Board, the issuer or the lead manager(s) in respect of the disclosures made in the draft offer document.
(3) The lead manager(s) shall, after expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (1), file with the  Board,  details  of  the  comments  received  by  them  or  the  issuer  from  the  public,  on  the  draft offer document, during that period and the consequential changes, if any, that are required to be made in the draft offer document.
(4)  The  issuer  and  the  lead  manager(s)    shall  ensure  that  the  offer  documents  are  hosted  on  the websites as required under these regulations and its contents are the same as the versions as filed with the Registrar of Companies, the Board and the stock exchanges, as applicable.
(5) The lead manager(s)  and the stock exchanges shall provide copies of the  offer documents, to the public as and when requested and may charge a reasonable sum  for providing a copy of the same. PART VII - PRICING Face value of equity shares
125.  The  disclosure  about  the  face  value  of  equity  shares  shall  be  made  in  the  draft  offer document, offer document, advertisements and application forms, along with the price band or the issue price in identical font size. Pricing
126. (1) The issuer may determine the price of equity shares, and in case of convertible securities, the coupon rate and the conversion price, in consultation with the lead manager(s) or through the book building process, as the case may be.
(2)  The  issuer  shall  undertake  the  book  building  process  in  the  manner  specified  in  Schedule XIII. Price and price band
127.  (1)  The  issuer  may  mention  a  price  or  a  price  band in  the  offer  document  (in  case  of  a  fixed price issue) and a floor price or a price band in the red herring prospectus (in case of a book built issue)  and  determine  the  price  at  a  later  date  before  60[filing]  the  prospectus  with  the  Registrar  of Companies: Provided that the prospectus 61[filed] with the Registrar of Companies shall contain only one price or the specific coupon rate, as the case may be.
(2)  The cap on the price band, and the coupon rate in case of convertible debt instruments, shall be less than or equal to one hundred and twenty per cent. of the floor price.
(3)  The  floor  price  or  the  final  price  shall  not  be  less  than  the  face  value  of  the  specified securities.
(4)  Where  the  issuer  opts  not  to  make  the  disclosure  of  the  floor  price  or  price  band  in  the  red herring prospectus, the issuer shall announce the floor price or the price band at least one working day  before  the  opening  of  the  bid  in  the  same  newspapers  in  which  the  pre-issue  advertisement was released or together with the pre-issue advertisement in the format prescribed under Part A of Schedule X.
(5) The  announcement  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (4)  shall  contain  relevant  financial  ratios computed for both upper and lower end of the price band and also a statement drawing attention of the investors to the section title “basis of issue price” of the offer document.
(6) The announcement referred to in sub-regulation (4) and the relevant financial ratios referred to in sub-regulation (5) shall be disclosed on the websites of the stock exchange(s) and shall also be pre-filled in the application forms to be made available on the websites of the stock exchange(s). Differential pricing
128. (1)  The issuer may offer its specified securities at different prices, subject to the following: a) retail  individual  investors  or  retail  individual  shareholders  or  employees  entitled  for reservation made under regulation 130  may be offered specified securities at a price not lower than by more than ten per cent. of the price at which net offer is made to other categories of applicants, excluding anchor investors; b) in case of a book built issue, the price of the specified securities offered to the anchor investors shall not be lower than the price offered to other applicants; c) in case of a composite issue, the price of the specified securities offered in the public issue may be different from the price offered in rights issue and justification for such price difference shall be given in the offer document. d) in  case  the  issuer  opts  for  the  alternate  method  of  book  building  in  terms  of  Part  D  of Schedule XIII, the issuer may offer the specified securities to its employees at a price  not lower by more than ten per cent. of the floor price.
(2) Discount, if any, shall be expressed in rupee terms in the offer document. PART VIII: ISSUANCE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURE Allocation in the net offer
129. (1)  In an issue made through the book building process under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 103, the allocation in the net offer category shall be as follows: a)  not less than thirty five per cent. to retail individual investors; 81 b)  not less than fifteen per cent. to non-institutional investors; c)  not  more  than  fifty  per  cent.  to  qualified  institutional  buyers,  five  per  cent.  of  which  shall  be allocated to mutual funds: Provided that the unsubscribed portion in either of the categories specified in clauses (a) or (b) may be allocated to applicants in any other category: Provided  further  that  in  addition  to  five  per  cent.  allocation  available  in  terms  of  clause  (c), mutual  funds  shall  be  eligible  for  allocation  under  the  balance  available  for  qualified institutional buyers.
(2) In an issue made through the book building process under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 103, the allocation in the net offer category shall be as follows: (a) not more than ten per cent. to retail individual investors; (b) not more than fifteen per cent. to non-institutional investors; (c) not less than seventy five per cent. to qualified institutional buyers, five per cent. of which shall be allocated to mutual funds: Provided that the unsubscribed portion in either of the categories specified in clauses (a) or (b) may be allocated to applicants in the other category: Provided further that in addition to five per cent. allocation available in terms of clause (c), mutual funds shall be eligible for allocation under the balance available for qualified institutional buyers.
(3)  In an issue made through the book building process, the issuer may allocate up to sixty per cent. of  the  portion  available  for  allocation  to  qualified  institutional  buyers  to  anchor  investors  in accordance with the conditions specified in this regard in Schedule XIII.
(4)    In  an  issue  made  other  than  through  the  book  building  process,  allocation  in  the  net  offer category shall be made as follows: (a)  minimum fifty per cent. to retail individual investors; and (b) remaining to: (i) individual applicants other than retail individual investors; and (ii)  other investors including corporate bodies or institutions, irrespective of the number of specified securities applied for; Provided that the unsubscribed portion in either of the categories specified in clauses (a) or (b) may be allocated to applicants in the other category. entitled  to  more  than  fifty  per  cent.  of  the  issue  size  on  a  proportionate  basis,  the  retail  individual investors shall be allocated that higher percentage. Reservation on a competitive basis 82
130.  (1)  The  issuer  may  make  reservations  on  a  competitive  basis  out  of  the  issue  size  excluding promoters’ contribution in favour of the following categories of persons: (a)  employees; (b)  shareholders (other than promoters and promoter group) of listed subsidiaries or listed promoter companies: Provided  that  the  issuer  shall  not  make  any  reservation  for  the  lead  manager(s),  registrar, syndicate member(s), their promoters, directors and employees and for the group or associate companies (as defined under the Companies Act, 2013) of the lead manager(s), registrar and syndicate member(s) and their promoters, directors and employees.
(2)  In a further public offer, other than in a composite issue, the issuer may make a reservation on a competitive  basis  out  of  the  issue  size  excluding  promoters’  contribution  r  for  the  existing  retail individual shareholders of the issuer.
(3)  The reservations on competitive basis shall be subject to following conditions: (a) the aggregate of reservation for employees shall not exceed five per cent. of the post-issue capital  of  the  issuer  and  the  value  of  allotment  to  any  employee  shall  not  exceed  two lakhs rupees: Provided that in the event of under-subscription in the employee reservation portion, the unsubscribed portion may be allotted on a proportionate basis, for a value in excess of two lakhs rupees, subject to the total allotment to an employee not exceeding five lakhs rupees. (b) reservation for shareholders shall not exceed ten per cent. of the issue size; (c)  no further application for subscription in the net offer can be made by persons (except an employee  and  retail  individual  shareholder  of  the  listed  issuer  and  retail  individual shareholders  of  listed  subsidiaries  of  listed  promoter  companies)  in  favour  of  whom reservation on a competitive basis is made; (d)  any  unsubscribed  portion  in  any  reserved  category  may  be  added  to  any  other  reserved category/categories    and  the  unsubscribed  portion,  if  any,  after  such  inter-se  adjustments amongst the reserved categories shall be added to the net offer category; (e) in  case  of  under-subscription  in  the  net  offer  category,  spill-over  to  the  extent  of  under- subscription shall be permitted from the reserved category to the net public offer.
(4)   An  applicant  in  any  reserved  category  may  make  an  application  for  any  number  of  specified securities, but not exceeding the reserved portion for that category. Abridged prospectus 83
131. (1) The abridged prospectus shall contain the disclosures as specified in Part E of Schedule VI and shall not contain any matter extraneous to the contents of the offer document.
(2) Every  application  form  distributed  by  the  issuer  or  any  other  person  in  relation  to  an  issue shall be accompanied by a copy of the abridged prospectus. ASBA
132.  The  issuer  shall  accept  bids  using  only  the  ASBA  facility  in  the  manner  specified  by  the Board. Availability of issue material
133. The lead manager(s) shall ensure availability of the offer document and other issue material including  application  forms  to  stock  exchanges,  syndicate  members,  registrar  to  issue,  registrar and  share  transfer  agents,  depository  participants,  stock  brokers,  underwriters,  bankers  to  the issue, investors’ associations and self certified syndicate banks before the opening of the issue. Prohibition on payment of incentives
134. Any person connected with the issue, shall not offer any incentive, whether direct or indirect, in  any  manner,  whether  in  cash  or  kind  or  services  or  otherwise  to  any  person  for  making  an application  in  the  initial  public  offer,  except  for  fees  or  commission  for  services  rendered  in relation to the issue. Security deposit
135. (1) The issuer shall, before the opening of the subscription list, deposit with the designated stock  exchange,  an  amount  calculated  at  the  rate  of  one  per  cent.  of  the  issue  size  available  for subscription to the public in the manner specified by the Board and/or the stock exchange(s).
(2) The  amount  specified  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  refundable  or  forfeitable  in  the  manner specified by the Board. Underwriting
136. (1)  If the issuer making a further public offer, other than through the book building process, desires  to  have  the  issue  underwritten,  it  shall  appoint  the  underwriters  in  accordance  with  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993.
(2) If the issuer makes a public issue through the book building process, (a)  the issue shall be underwritten by lead manager(s) and syndicate member(s): 84 Provided that  at  least  seventy five per  cent.  of the net  offer proposed to be compulsorily allotted  to  qualified  institutional  buyers  for  the  purpose  of  compliance  of  the  eligibility conditions specified in sub-regulation (2) of regulation  103, shall not be  underwritten. (b) the issuer shall, prior to filing the prospectus, enter into underwriting agreement with the lead  manager(s),  and  syndicate  member(s),  indicating  therein  the  number  of  specified securities which they shall subscribe to  at  the predetermined price in  the event  of under- subscription in the issue. (c)  if the syndicate member(s) fail to fulfil their underwriting obligations, the lead manager(s) shall fulfil the underwriting obligations. (d) the  lead  manager(s)  and  syndicate  member(s)  shall  not  subscribe  to  the  issue  in  any manner except for fulfilling their underwriting obligations. (e)  in  case  of  every  underwritten  issue,  the  lead  manager(s)  shall  undertake  minimum underwriting  obligations  as  specified  in  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992. (f)  where the issue is required to be underwritten, the underwriting obligations should at least be to the extent of minimum subscription. Monitoring agency
137. (1) If the issue size, excluding the size of offer for sale by selling shareholders, exceeds one hundred crore rupees, the issuer shall make arrangements for the use of proceeds of the issue to be monitored by a public financial institution or by a scheduled commercial bank named in the offer document as the bankers of the issuer: Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to an issue of specified securities made by a bank or public financial institution or an insurance company.
(2)  The monitoring agency shall submit its report to the issuer in the format specified in Schedule XI on a quarterly basis, till at least ninety five per cent. of the proceeds of the issue, excluding the proceeds raised for general corporate purposes, have been utilised.
(3)  The board of directors and the management of the issuer shall provide their comments on the findings of the monitoring agency as specified in Schedule XI.
(4)  The issuer shall, within forty five days from the end of each quarter, publicly disseminate the report  of  the  monitoring  agency  by  uploading  the  same  on  its  website  as  well  as  submitting  the same to the stock exchange(s) on which its equity shares are listed. Public communications, publicity materials, advertisements and research reports 85
138.  All  public  communication,  publicity  materials,  advertisements  and  research  reports  shall comply with provisions of Schedule IX. Issue-related advertisements
139. (1) Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the issuer shall, after  62[filing] the red herring prospectus (in case of a  book built issue) or prospectus (in case of fixed price issue) with  the  Registrar  of  Companies,  make  a  pre-issue  advertisement  in  one  English  national  daily newspaper  with  wide  circulation,  Hindi  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  and  one regional language newspaper with wide circulation at the place where the registered office of the issuer is situated.
(2)  The pre-issue advertisement shall be in the format and shall contain the disclosures specified in Part A of Schedule X. Provided  that  the  disclosures  in  relation  to  price  band  or  floor  price  and  financial  ratios  contained therein shall be applicable only where the issuer opts to announce the price band or floor price along with the pre-issue advertisement pursuant to sub-regulation (4) of regulation 127.
(3) The issuer may release advertisements for issue opening and issue closing, which shall be in the formats specified in Parts B and C of Schedule X.
(4) During the period the issue is open for subscription, no advertisement shall be released giving an impression that the issue has been fully subscribed or oversubscribed or indicating investors’ response to the issue. Opening of the issue
140. (1) Subject to the compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, a public issue may be opened within twelve months from the date of issuance of the observations by the Board under sub-regulation (4) of regulation 123; or Provided that in case of a fast track issue, the issue shall open within the period specifically stipulated under the Companies Act, 2013.
(2)  In case of shelf prospectus, the first issue may be opened within three months of issuance of observations by the Board.
(3) The issue shall be opened after at least three working days from the date of  63[filing] the red herring  prospectus  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies  in  case  of  book  built  issues  and  prospectus with the Registrar of Companies in case of fixed price issues. Minimum subscription
141. (1) The minimum subscription to be received in the issue shall be at least ninety per cent. of the offer through the offer document, except in case of an offer for sale of specified securities.
(2) In  the  event  of  non-receipt  of  minimum  subscription  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1),  all application monies received shall be refunded to the applicants forthwith, but not later than fifteen days from the closure of the issue. Period of subscription
142. (1) Except as otherwise provided in these regulations, a further public issue shall be kept open for at least three working days and not more than ten working days.
(2) In case of a revision in the price band, the issuer shall extend the bidding (issue) period disclosed in the red herring prospectus, for a minimum period of three working days, subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (1).
(3)  In case of force  majeure, banking strike or similar circumstances, the issuer may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend the bidding (issue)  period disclosed in the red herring prospectus (in case  of  a  book  built  issue)  or the issue  period  disclosed  in  the  prospectus (in  case  of  a  fixed  price issue), for a minimum period of three working days, subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (1). Application and minimum application value
143. (1) A person shall not make an application in the net offer category for a number of specified securities that exceeds the total number of specified securities offered to public. Provided that the maximum application by non-institutional investors shall not exceed total number of specified securities offered in the issue less total number of specified securities offered in the issue to qualified institutional buyers.
(2)  The  issuer  shall  stipulate  in  the  offer  document  the  minimum  application  size  in  terms  of number of specified securities which shall fall within the range of minimum application value of ten thousand rupees to fifteen thousand rupees.
(3)  The issuer shall invite applications in multiples of the minimum application value, an illustration whereof is given in Part B of Schedule XIV.
(4)  The minimum sum payable on application per specified security shall be at least twenty five per cent. of the issue price: Provided  that  in  case  of  an  offer  for  sale,  the  full  issue  price  for  each  specified  security  shall  be payable at the time of application. reference to the issue price of the specified securities and not with reference to the amount payable on application. Manner of calls
144.  If the issuer proposes to receive subscription monies in calls, it shall ensure that the outstanding subscription money is called within twelve months from the date of allotment in the issue and if any applicant fails to pay the call money within the said twelve months, the equity shares on which there are calls in arrear along with the subscription money already paid on such shares shall be forfeited: Provided  that  it  shall  not  be  necessary  to  call  the  outstanding  subscription  money  within  twelve months, if the issuer has appointed a monitoring agency in terms of regulation  137. Allotment procedure and basis of allotment
145.  (1)  The  issuer  shall  not  make  an  allotment  pursuant  to  a  public  issue  if  the  number  of prospective allottees is less than one thousand.
(2)  The issuer shall not make any allotment in excess of the specified securities offered through the offer  document  except  in  case  of  oversubscription  for  the  purpose  of  rounding  off  to  make allotment, in consultation with the designated stock exchange. Provided that in case of oversubscription, an allotment of not more than one per cent. of the net offer to public may be made for the purpose of making allotment in minimum lots.
(3)  The  allotment  of  specified  securities  to  applicants  other  than  retail  individual  investors  and anchor  investors  shall  be  on  proportionate  basis  within  the  specified  investor  categories  and  the number  of  securities  allotted  shall  be  rounded  off  to  the  nearest  integer,  subject  to  minimum allotment being equal to the minimum application size as determined and disclosed by the issuer: Provided that value of specified securities allotted to any person, except in case of employees, in pursuance  of  reservation  made  under  clause  (a)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  or  clause  (a)  of  sub- regulation (2) of regulation 130, shall not exceed two lakhs rupees.
(4) The allotment of specified securities to each retail individual investor shall not be less than the minimum  bid  lot,  subject  to  availability  of  shares  in  retail  individual  investor  category,  and  the remaining available shares, if any, shall be allotted on a proportionate basis. 88
(5)  The  authorised  employees  of  the  designated  stock  exchange  along  with  the  lead  manager(s) and registrars to the issue shall ensure that the basis of allotment is finalised in a fair and proper manner in accordance with the allotment procedure as specified in Part A of Schedule XIV. Allotment, refund and payment of interest
146.  (1)  The  issuer  and  lead  manager(s)  shall  ensure  that  specified  securities  are  allotted  and/or application monies are refunded or unblocked within such period as may be specified by the Board.
(2) The  lead  manager(s)  shall  ensure  that  the  allotment,  credit  of  dematerialised  securities, refunding or unblocking of application monies, as may be applicable, are done electronically.
(3) Where  specified  securities  are  not  allotted  and/or  application  monies  are  not  refunded  or unblocked within the period stipulated in sub-regulation (1) above, the issuer shall undertake to pay interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum to the investors and within such time as disclosed in the offer document and the lead manager(s) shall ensure the same. Post-issue Advertisements
147.  (1)  The  lead  manager(s)  shall  ensure  that  advertisement  giving  details  relating  to subscription,  basis  of  allotment,  number,  value  and  percentage  of  all  applications  including ASBA, number, value and percentage of successful allottees for all applications including ASBA, date  of  completion  of  despatch  of  refund  orders,  as  applicable,  or  instructions  to  self-certified syndicate banks by the registrar, date of credit of specified securities and date of filing of listing application, etc. is released within ten days from the date of completion of the various activities in at  least  one  English  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation,  one  Hindi  national  daily newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language daily newspaper with wide circulation at the place where registered office of the issuer is situated.
(2)  Details  specified  in  sub  regulation  (1)  shall  also  be  placed  on  the  websites  of  the  stock exchanges. Post-issue responsibilities of the lead manager(s)
148. (1) The responsibility of the lead manager(s) shall continue until completion of issue process and for any issue related matter thereafter.
(2) The lead manager(s) shall regularly monitor redressal of investor grievances arising from any issue related activities.
(3) The lead manager(s)  shall continue to be responsible for post-issue activities till the applicants have  received  the  securities  certificates,  credit  to  their  demat  account  or  refund  of  application 89 monies and the listing agreement is entered into by the issuer with the stock exchange and listing or trading permission is obtained.
(4) The lead manager(s) shall be responsible for and  co-ordinate with the registrars to the issue and  with  various  intermediaries  at  regular  intervals  after  the  closure  of  the  issue  to  monitor  the flow  of  applications  from  syndicate  member(s)  or  collecting  bank  branches  and  or  self-certified syndicate  banks,  processing  of  the  applications  including  application  form  for  ASBA  and  other matters  till  the  basis  of  allotment  is  finalised,  credit  of  the  specified  securities  to  the  demat accounts  of  the  allottees  and  unblocking  of  ASBA  accounts/  despatch  of  refund  orders  are completed and securities are listed, as applicable.
(5) Any act of omission or commission on the part of any of the intermediaries noticed by the lead manager(s) shall be duly reported by them to the Board.
(6) In case there is a devolvement on underwriters, the lead manager(s) shall ensure that the notice for devolvement containing the obligation of the underwriters is issued within a period of ten days from the date of closure of the issue.
(7)  In  case  of  undersubscribed  issues  that  are  underwritten,  the  lead  manager(s)  shall  furnish information  to  the  Board  in  respect  of  underwriters  who  have  failed  to  meet  their  underwriting devolvement in the format specified in Schedule XVIII. Release of subscription money
149. (1) The lead manager(s) shall confirm to the bankers to the issue by way of copies of listing and  trading  approvals  that  all  formalities  in  connection  with  the  issue  have  been  completed  and that the banker is free to release the money to the issuer or release the money for refund in case of failure of the issue.
(2) In case the issuer fails to obtain listing or trading permission from the stock exchanges where the  specified  securities  were  listed,  it  shall  refund,  through  verifiable  means,  the  entire  monies received within seven days of receipt of intimation from stock exchanges rejecting the application for  listing  of  specified  securities  and  if  monies  are  not  repaid  within  the  specified  period,  the issuer and every director of the company who is an officer in default shall, on and from the expiry of the eighth  day, be jointly and severally liable  to  repay that money with interest  at  the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum.
(3) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the monies received in respect of the issue are released to the issuer in compliance with the provisions of the Section 40 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013, as applicable. Reporting of transactions by the promoters and promoter group 90
150. The issuer shall ensure that all transactions in securities by the promoters and promoter group between the date of filing of the draft offer document or offer document, as the case may be, and the date of closure of the issue shall be reported to the stock exchanges, within twenty four hours of such transactions. Post- issue reports
151. The lead manager(s) shall submit a final post-issue report as specified in Part A of Schedule XVII, along with a due diligence certificate as per the format specified in Form F of Schedule V, within seven days of the date of finalization of basis of allotment or within seven  days of refund of money in case of failure of issue. PART IX: MISCELLANEOUS Restriction on further capital issues
152. An issuer shall not make any further issue of specified securities in any manner whether by way of public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, qualified institutions placement, issue of bonus shares or otherwise, except pursuant to an employee stock option scheme: a) in  case  of  a  fast  track  issue,  during  the  period  between  the  date  of  64[filing]  the  offer document (in case of a book built issue) or prospectus (in case of a fixed price issue) with the Registrar  of  Companies  and  the  listing  of  the  specified  securities  offered  through  the  offer document or refund of application monies; or b) in  case  of  other  issues,  during the period between the date of filing the draft offer document and  the  listing  of  the  specified  securities  offered  through  the  offer  document  or  refund  of application monies; unless full disclosures regarding the total number of specified securities or amount proposed to be raised from such further issue are made in such draft offer document or offer document, as the case may be. Price stabilisation through green shoe option
153. (1) An issuer  may provide green shoe option for stabilising the post listing price of its specified securities, subject to the following: a) the issuer has been authorized, by a resolution passed in the general meeting of shareholders approving the public issue, to allot specified securities to the stabilising agent, if required, on the expiry of the stabilisation period; b) the issuer has appointed a lead manager as a stabilising agent, who shall be responsible for the price stabilisation process; c) prior to filing the draft offer document, the issuer and the stabilising agent have entered into an agreement, stating all the terms and conditions relating to the green shoe option including fees charged and expenses to be incurred by the stabilising agent for discharging its responsibilities; d) prior to filing the offer document, the stabilising agent has entered into an agreement with the promoters  or  pre-issue  shareholders  or  both  for  borrowing  specified  securities  from  them  in accordance with clause (g) of this sub-regulation, specifying therein the maximum number of specified securities that may be borrowed for the purpose of allotment or allocation of specified securities  in  excess  of  the  issue  size  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “over-  allotment”),  which shall not be in excess of fifteen per cent. of the issue size; e) subject  to  clause  (d),  the  lead  manager,  in  consultation  with  the  stabilising  agent,  shall determine the amount of specified securities to be over-allotted in the public issue; f) the  draft  offer  document  and  offer  document  shall  contain  all  material  disclosures  about  the green shoe option specified in this regard in Part A of Schedule VI; g) in case of an initial public offer pre-issue shareholders and promoters and in case of a further public  offer  pre-issue  shareholders  holding  more  than  five  per  cent.  specified  securities  and promoters, may lend specified securities to the extent of the proposed over-allotment; h) the  specified  securities  borrowed  shall  be  in  dematerialised  form  and  allocation  of  these securities shall be made pro-rata to all successful applicants.
(2)  For  the  purpose  of  stabilisation  of  post-listing  price  of  the  specified  securities,  the  stabilising agent shall determine the relevant aspects including the timing of buying such securities, quantity to be bought and the price at which such securities are to be bought from the market.
(3)  The stabilisation process shall be available for a period not exceeding thirty days from the date on which  trading  permission  is  given  by  the  stock  exchanges  in  respect  of  the  specified  securities allotted in the public issue.
(4)  The stabilising agent shall open a special account, distinct from the issue account, with a bank for crediting  the  monies  received  from  the  applicants against  the over-allotment  and  a special  account with a depository participant for crediting specified securities to be bought from the market during the stabilisation period out of the monies credited in the special bank account. 92
(5)  The  specified  securities  bought  from  the  market  and  credited  in  the  special  account  with  the depository  participant  shall  be  returned  to  the  promoters  or  pre-issue  shareholders  immediately,  in any case not later than two working days after the end of the stabilization period.
(6)  On expiry of the stabilisation period, if the stabilising agent has not been able to buy specified securities from the market to the extent of such securities over-allotted, the issuer shall allot specified securities  at  issue  price  in  dematerialised  form  to  the  extent  of  the  shortfall  to  the  special  account with  the  depository  participant,  within  five days  of  the  closure of  the  stabilisation  period  and  such specified  securities  shall  be  returned  to  the  promoters  or  pre-issue  shareholders  by  the  stabilising agent  in  lieu  of  the  specified  securities  borrowed  from  them  and  the  account  with  the  depository participant shall be closed thereafter.
(7)  The  issuer  shall  make  a  listing  application  in  respect  of  the  further  specified  securities  allotted under  sub-regulation  (6),  to  all  the  stock  exchanges  where  the  specified  securities  allotted  in  the public issue are listed and the provisions of Chapter VII shall not be applicable to such allotment.
(8)  The stabilising agent shall remit the monies with respect to the specified securities allotted under sub-regulation (6) to the issuer from the special bank account.
(9)  Any monies left in the special bank account after remittance of monies to the issuer under sub- regulation (8) and deduction of expenses incurred by the stabilising agent for the stabilisation process shall be transferred to the Investor Protection and Education Fund established by the Board and the special bank account shall be closed soon thereafter.
(10)  The stabilising agent shall submit a report to the stock exchange on a daily basis during the stabilisation period and a final report to the Board in the format specified in Schedule XV.
(11)  The stabilising agent shall maintain a register for a period of at least three years from the date of the end of the stabilisation period and such register shall contain the following particulars: a) The names of the promoters or pre-issue shareholders from whom the specified securities were borrowed and the number of specified securities borrowed from each of them; b)  The price, date and time in respect of each transaction effected in the course of the stabilisation process; and The details of allotment made by the issuer on expiry of the stabilisation process. c) Alteration of rights of holders of specified securities
154.  An issuer shall not alter the terms, including the terms of issue, of specified securities which may  adversely  affect  the  interests  of  the  holders  of  that  specified  securities,  except  with  the consent  in  writing  of the holders of not  less than three-fourths  of the specified securities of that 93 class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a meeting of the holders of the specified securities of that class. PART X: FAST TRACK FURTHER PUBLIC OFFER Eligibility conditions
155.  Sub-regulations  (1),  (2),  (3),  (  4)  and  (  5)  and  (9)  of  regulation  123  shall  not  apply  if  the issuer  satisfies  the  following  conditions  for  making  a  further  public  offer  through  the  fast  track route: a) equity  shares  of  the  issuer  have  been  listed  on  any  stock  exchange  for  a  period  of  at  least three years immediately preceding the reference date; b) entire shareholding of the promoter group of the issuer is held in dematerialised form on the reference date c) average  market  capitalisation  of  public  shareholding  of  the  issuer  is  at  least  one  thousand crore rupees in case of public issue; “average  market  capitalisation  of  public  shareholding”  means  the  sum  of  daily  market capitalisation  of  public  shareholding  for  a  period  of  one  year  up  to  the  end  of  the  quarter preceding the month in  which the proposed issue was approved by the shareholders or the board of the issuer, as the case may be, divided by the number of trading days. “public  shareholding”  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  it  under  the  Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957. d) annualised  trading  turnover  of  the  equity  shares  of  the  issuer  during  six  calendar  months immediately preceding the month of the reference date has been at least two per cent. of the weighted average number of equity shares listed during such six months‘ period: Provided that for issuers, whose public shareholding is less than fifteen per cent. of its issued equity capital, the annualised trading turnover of its equity shares has been at least two per cent. of the weighted average number of equity shares available as free float during such six months‘ period; e) annualized delivery-based trading turnover of the equity shares during six calendar months immediately preceding the month of the reference date has been at least ten per cent. of the annualised trading turnover of the equity shares during such six months‘ period; f) issuer  has  been  in  compliance  with  the  equity  listing  agreement  or  the  Securities  and Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations, 2015, as applicable, for a period of at least three years immediately preceding the reference date: 94 Provided that if the issuer has not complied with the provisions of the listing agreement or the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure Requirements)  Regulations,  2015,  as  applicable,  relating  to  composition  of  board  of directors,  for  any  quarter  during  the  last  three  years  immediately  preceding  the  reference date,  but  is  compliant  with  such  provisions  at  the  time  of  filing  of  letter  of  offer,  and adequate disclosures are made in the letter of offer about such non-compliances during the three years immediately preceding the reference date, it shall be deemed as compliance with the condition; Provided  further  that  imposition  of  only  monetary  fines  by  stock  exchanges  on  the  issuer shall not be a ground for ineligibility for undertaking issuances under this regulation; g) issuer  has  redressed  at  least  ninety  five  per  cent.  of  the  complaints  received  from  the investors till the end of the quarter immediately preceding the month of the reference date; h) no show-cause notices have been issued or prosecution proceedings have  been initiated by the Board and pending against the issuer or its promoters or whole-time directors as on the reference date; i) issuer  or  promoter  or  promoter  group  or  director  of  the  issuer  has  not  settled  any  alleged violation  of  securities  laws  through  the  consent  or  settlement  mechanism  with  the  Board during three years immediately preceding the reference date; j) equity shares of the issuer have not been suspended from trading as a disciplinary measure during last three years immediately preceding the reference date; k) there shall be no conflict of interest between the lead manager(s) and the issuer or its group companies in accordance with the applicable regulations. l) impact of audit qualifications, if any and where quantifiable, on the audited accounts of the issuer in respect of those financial years for which such accounts are disclosed in the letter of offer does not exceed five per cent. of the net profit or loss after tax of the issuer for the respective years. Submission of offer document and due diligence certificate
156.  (1)  The  issuer  shall  file  the  offer  document  with  the  Board  and  the  stock  exchanges  in accordance with sub-regulations  (7) and  (8) of regulation  123 and shall pay fees to the Board as specified in Schedule III.
(2) The lead manager(s) shall submit to the Board, the following documents along with the offer document: a)  a due diligence certificate as per Form A of Schedule V including additional confirmations as specified in Form E of Schedule V; 95 b)  in case of a fast track issue of convertible debt instruments, a due diligence certificate from the debenture trustee as per Form B of Schedule V. red herring prospectus (in case of a book built issue) or prospectus (in case of a fixed price issue) with the Registrar of Companies. Post-listing exit opportunity for dissenting shareholders
157.  In  case  of  further  public  offers,  including  under  the  fast  track  route,  the  promoters  or shareholders  in  control  of  an  issuer  shall  provide  an  exit  offer  to  dissenting  shareholders  as provided for in the Companies Act, 2013, in case of change in objects or variation in the terms of contract  related  to  objects  referred  to  in  the  offer  document  as  per  conditions  and  manner  is provided in Schedule XX; Provided  that  the  exit  offer  shall  not  apply  where  there  are  neither  identifiable  promoters  nor shareholders in control of the listed issuer. CHAPTER V – PREFERENTIAL ISSUE Provisions of this chapter not to apply in certain cases
158.  (1)  The  provisions  of  this  Chapter  shall  not  apply  where  the  preferential  issue  of  equity shares is made pursuant to: a) conversion of a loan or an option attached to convertible debt instruments in terms of sub- sections (3) and (4) of sections 81 of the Companies Act, 1956 or sub-section (3) and (4) of section 62 of the Companies Act, 2013, whichever is applicable; b) a scheme approved by a High Court under section 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956 or approved  by  a  tribunal  or  the  Central  Government  under  sections  230  to  234  of  the Companies Act, 2013, as applicable; Provided  that  the  pricing  provisions  of  this  Chapter  shall  apply  to  the  issuance  of  shares under schemes mentioned in clause (b) in case of allotment of shares only to a select group of shareholders or shareholders of unlisted companies pursuant to such schemes; c) a qualified institutions placement in accordance with Chapter VI of these regulations.
(2)  The  provisions  of  this  Chapter,  except  the  lock-in  provisions,  shall  not  apply  where  the preferential issue of specified securities is made in terms of the rehabilitation scheme approved by the Board of Industrial and Financial Reconstruction under the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions)  Act,  1985  [1  of  1986]  or  the  resolution  plan  approved  under  Section  31  of  the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code, 2016 [No. 31 of 2016], whichever is applicable.
(3) The provisions of this Chapter relating to pricing and lock-in shall not apply to equity shares allotted to any financial institution within the meaning of sub-clauses (ia) and (ii) of clause (h) of section  2  of  the  Recovery  of  Debts  due  to  Banks  and  Financial  Institutions  Act,  1993  (51  of
1993). (4)  The  provisions  of  regulation  163  and  sub-regulations  (1),  (2),  (3)  and  (4)  of  regulation  164 shall  not  apply  to  a  preferential  issue  of  equity  shares  and  compulsorily  convertible  debt instruments, whether fully or partly, where the Board has granted relaxation to the issuer in terms of regulation 11 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, if adequate disclosures about the plan and process proposed to be  followed  for  identifying  the  allottees  are  given  in  the  explanatory  statement  to  notice  for  the general meeting of the shareholders.
(5) The provisions of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 159 and sub-regulation (6) of regulation 167 shall  not  apply  to  a  preferential  issue  of  specified  securities  where  the  proposed  allottee  is  a mutual fund registered with the Board or insurance company registered with Insurance Regulatory 97 and  Development  Authority  of  India  or  a  scheduled  commercial  bank  or  a  public  financial institution.
(6)  The  provisions  of  this  Chapter  shall  not  apply  where  the  preferential  issue  of  specified securities  is  made  to  the  lenders  pursuant  to  conversion  of  their  debt,  as  part  of  a  debt restructuring  [***]66  implemented  in  accordance  with  the  guidelines  specified  by  the  Reserve Bank of India, subject to the following conditions: a) guidelines for determining the conversion price have been specified by the Reserve Bank of  India  in  accordance  with  which  the  conversion  price  shall  be  determined  and  which shall be in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013; conversion price shall be certified by two independent valuers; specified securities so allotted shall be locked-in for a period of one year from the date of b) c) their allotment Provided  that  for  the  purpose  of  transferring  the  control,  the  lenders  may  transfer  the specified  securities  allotted  to  them  before  completion  of  the  lock-in  period  subject  to continuation of the lock-in on such securities for the remaining period, with the transferee; d) the lock-in of equity shares allotted pursuant to conversion of convertible securities issued on preferential basis shall be reduced to the extent the convertible securities have already been locked-in; e) the  applicable  provisions  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  are  complied  with,  including  the requirement of a special resolution. commercial  banks  (excluding  Regional  Rural  Banks)  and  All  India  Financial Institutions.]67 [***]68 98 PART I: ISSUERS INELIGIBLE TO MAKE A PREFERENTIAL ISSUE
159. (1) Preferential issue of specified securities shall not be made to any person who has sold or transferred any equity shares of the issuer during the six months preceding the relevant date: Provided  that  in  respect  of  the  preferential  issue  of  equity  shares  and  compulsorily  convertible debt instruments, whether fully or partly, the Board may grant relaxation from the requirements of this sub-regulation, if the Board has granted relaxation in terms of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 11    of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 to such a preferential allotment. transferred their equity shares in the issuer during the six months preceding the relevant date, the promoter(s)  and  promoter  group  shall  be  ineligible  for  allotment  of  specified  securities  on preferential basis. Provided  that  the  above  restriction  shall  not  apply  to  any  sale  of  equity  shares  by  any  person belonging  to  promoter(s)  of  the  promoter  group  which  qualifies  for  inter-se  transfer  amongst qualifying  persons  under  clause  (a)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  10    of  the  Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeover Regulations), 2011 or in case of transfer of shares held by the promoters or promoter group on account of invocation of pledge by a scheduled commercial bank or public financial institution or a systemically important a) b) c) d) e) f) b. guidelines  for  determining  the  issue  price  have  been  specified  by  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India  in accordance  with  which the issue price shall be determined and  which  shall be in compliance  with the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013; issue price shall be certified by two independent valuers; specified securities so allotted shall be locked-in for a period of at least three years from the date of their allotment; lock-in  of  equity  shares  allotted  pursuant  to  conversion  of  convertible  securities  issued  on preferential basis shall be reduced to the extent the convertible securities have already been locked- in; special resolution has been passed by shareholders of the issuer before the preferential issue; issuer  shall,  in  addition  to  the  disclosures  required  under  the  Companies  Act,  2013  or  any  other applicable  law,  disclose  the  following  information  pertaining  to  the  proposed  allottee(s)  in  the explanatory  statement  to  the  notice  for  the  general  meeting  proposed  for  passing  the  special resolution as stipulated at clause (e) of this sub-regulation: identity, including that of the natural persons, who are the ultimate beneficial owners of the shares proposed to be allotted and/ or who ultimately control the proposed allottee(s); c.  business model; d.  statement on growth of business over a period of time; e. f. g.  proposed roadmap for effecting turnaround of the issuer. h.  applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 are complied with.” summary of audited financial statements of previous three financial years; track record, if any, in turning around companies; 99 non-  banking  finance  company  or  mutual  fund  or  insurance  company  registered  with  the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority.
(1)  Where any person belonging to promoter(s) or the promoter group has previously subscribed to  warrants  of  an  issuer  but  has  failed  to  exercise  the  warrants,  the  promoter(s)  and  promoter group shall be ineligible for issue of specified securities of such issuer on preferential basis for a period of one year from: a) the date of expiry of the tenure of the warrants due to non-exercise of the option to convert; or b) the date of cancellation of the warrants, as the case may be.
(2)  An issuer shall not be eligible to make a preferential issue if any of its promoters or directors is a fugitive economic offender. PART II: CONDITIONS FOR PREFERENTIAL ISSUE Conditions for preferential issue
160. A listed issuer making a preferential issue of specified securities shall ensure that: a) all equity shares allotted by way of preferential issue shall be made fully paid up at the time b) c) d) of the allotment; a special resolution has been passed by its shareholders; all equity shares held by the proposed allottees in the issuer are in dematerialised form; the  issuer  is  in  compliance  with  the  conditions  for  continuous  listing  of  equity  shares  as specified  in  the  listing  agreement  with  the  stock  exchange  where  the  equity  shares  of  the issuer  are  listed  and  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing  Obligations  and Disclosure Requirements), 2015, as amended, and any circular or notification issued by the Board thereunder; e) the  issuer  has  obtained  the  Permanent  Account  Numbers  of  the  proposed  allottees,  except those allottees which may be exempt from specifying their Permanent Account Number for transacting in the securities market by the Board. Relevant date
161. For the purpose of this Chapter, "relevant date" means: a) in case of preferential issue of equity shares, the date thirty days prior to the date on which the meeting of shareholders is held to consider the proposed preferential issue: Provided that in case of a preferential issue of specified securities pursuant to any resolution of stressed assets under a framework specified by the Reserve Bank of India or a resolution 100 plan  approved  by  the  National  Company  Law  Tribunal  under  the  Insolvency  and Bankruptcy Code 2016,, the date of approval of the corporate debt restructuring package or resolution plan shall be the relevant date. b) in case of a preferential issue of convertible securities, either the relevant date referred to in clause (a) of this regulation or a date thirty days prior to the date on which the holders of the convertible securities become entitled to apply for the equity shares. weekend or the holiday will be reckoned to be the relevant date. Tenure of convertible securities
162. The tenure of the convertible securities of the issuer shall not exceed eighteen months from the date of their allotment. PART III: DISCLOSURES TO SHAREHOLDERS
163. (1) The issuer shall, in addition to the disclosures required under the Companies Act, 2013 or any other applicable law, disclose the following in the explanatory statement to the notice for the general meeting proposed for passing the special resolution: a) objects of the preferential issue; b)  maximum number of specified securities to be issued; c) intent  of the promoters, directors or key managerial personnel  of the issuer to  subscribe to the offer; shareholding pattern of the issuer before and after the preferential issue; time frame within which the preferential issue shall be completed; identity of the natural persons who are the ultimate beneficial owners of the shares proposed to  be  allotted  and/or  who  ultimately  control  the  proposed  allottees,  the  percentage  of  post preferential issue capital that may be held by them and change in control, if any, in the issuer consequent to the preferential issue: Provided  that  if  there  is  any  listed  company,  mutual  fund,  scheduled  commercial  bank, insurance company registered with the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India  in  the  chain  of  ownership  of  the  proposed  allottee,  no  further  disclosure  will  be necessary. 101 d) e) f) allottees,  where  the  allottees  are  institutions/entities,  the  identification  of  such  ultimate beneficial owners, shall be in accordance with the guidelines prescribed by the Board, if any. g) undertaking that the issuer shall re-compute the price of the specified securities in terms of the provision of these regulations where it is required to do so; h) undertaking that if the amount payable on account of the re-computation of price is not paid within  the  time  stipulated  in  these  regulations,  the  specified  securities  shall  continue  to  be locked- in till the time such amount is paid by the allottees. i) disclosures specified in Schedule VI, if the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a wilful defaulter.
(2) The  issuer  shall  place  a  copy  of  the  certificate  of  its  statutory  auditors  before  the  general meeting of the shareholders considering the proposed preferential issue, certifying that the issue is being made in accordance with the requirements of these regulations.
(3) Where  the  specified  securities  are  issued  on  a  preferential  basis  for  consideration  other  than cash,  the  valuation  of  the  assets  in  consideration  for  which  the  equity  shares  are  issued  shall  be done by an independent valuer, which shall be submitted to the stock exchanges where the equity shares of the issuer are listed: Provided that if the stock exchange(s) is not satisfied with the appropriateness of the valuation, it may get the valuation done by any other valuer and for this purpose it may seek any information, as deemed necessary, from the issuer.
(4) The special resolution shall specify the relevant date on the basis of which price of the equity shares to be allotted on conversion or exchange of convertible securities shall be calculated. PART IV: PRICING Pricing of frequently traded shares
164. (1)  If the equity shares of the issuer have been listed on a recognised stock exchange for a period  of  twenty  six  weeks  or  more  as  on  the  relevant  date,  the  price  of  the  equity  shares  to  be allotted pursuant to the preferential issue shall be not less than higher of the following: a.  the average of the weekly high and low of the volume weighted average price of the related equity shares quoted on the recognised stock exchange during the twenty six weeks preceding the relevant date; or b.  the average of the weekly high and low of the volume weighted average prices of the related equity  shares  quoted  on  a  recognised  stock  exchange  during  the  two  weeks  preceding  the relevant date. 102
(2)  If the equity shares of the issuer have been listed on a recognised stock exchange for a period of less than twenty six weeks as on the relevant date, the price of the equity shares to be allotted pursuant to the preferential issue shall be not less than the higher of the following: a)  the price at which equity shares were issued by the issuer in its initial public offer or the value per  share  arrived  at  in  a  scheme  of  compromise,  arrangement  and  amalgamation  under sections 391 to  394 of the Companies Act,  1956 or sections 230 to  234 the Companies Act, 2013, as applicable, pursuant to which the equity shares of the issuer were listed, as the case may be; or b)  the average of the weekly high and low of the volume weighted average prices of the related equity  shares  quoted  on  the  recognised  stock  exchange  during  the  period  the  equity  shares have been listed preceding the relevant date; or c)  the average of the weekly high and low of the volume weighted average prices of the related equity  shares  quoted  on  a  recognised  stock  exchange  during  the  two  weeks  preceding  the relevant date.
(3)  Where the price of the equity shares is determined in terms of sub-regulation (2), such price shall be recomputed by the issuer on completion of twenty six weeks from the date of listing on a recognised  stock  exchange  with  reference  to  the  average  of  the  weekly  high  and  low  of  the volume  weighted  average  prices  of  the  related  equity  shares  quoted  on  the  recognised  stock exchange during these twenty six weeks and if such recomputed price is higher than the price paid on allotment, the difference shall be paid by the allottees to the issuer.
(4)  A preferential issue of specified securities to qualified institutional buyers, not exceeding five in number, shall be made at  a price not less than the average of the weekly high and low of the volume  weighted  average  prices  of  the  related  equity  shares  quoted  on  a  recognised  stock exchange during the two weeks preceding the relevant date.
(5) For the purpose of this Chapter, “frequently traded shares” means the shares of the issuer, in which the traded turnover on any recognised stock exchange during the twelve calendar months preceding the relevant date, is at least ten per cent of the total number of shares of such class of shares of the issuer: Provided that where the  share capital  of a particular class of shares of the issuer is  not  identical throughout  such  period,  the  weighted  average  number  of  total  shares  of  such  class  of  the  issuer shall represent the total number of shares. stock  exchange(s)  in  which  the  equity  shares  of  the  issuer  are  listed  and  in  which  the  highest trading volume in respect of the equity shares of the issuer has been recorded during the preceding twenty six weeks prior to the relevant date. 103 69[Pricing in preferential issue of shares of companies having stressed assets
164A. (1) In case of frequently traded shares, the price of the equity shares to be allotted pursuant to  the  preferential  issue  shall  not  be  less  than    the  average  of  the  weekly  high  and  low    of    the volume  weighted  average  price  of  the  related  equity  shares  quoted  on  a recognised stock exchange during the two weeks preceding the relevant date.
(2)  No allotment of equity shares shall be made unless the issuer company meets any two of the following criteria: a)  the  issuer  has    disclosed  all the defaults  relating  to  the  payment  of  interest/ repayment of  principal  amount  on  loans  from  banks  /  financial  institutions/ Systemically  Important Non-Deposit    taking    Non-banking    financial    companies/  Deposit    taking    Non-banking financial  companies  and  /or  listed  or  unlisted  debt securities in terms of SEBI Circular dated November 21, 2019 and such payment default is continuing for a period of at least 90 calendar days after the occurrence of such default; b) there is an Inter-creditor agreement in terms of Reserve Bank of India (Prudential Framework for Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions 2019 dated June 07, 2019; c)  the  credit  rating  of  the  financial  instruments  (listed  or  unlisted),  credit  instruments  / borrowings (listed or unlisted) of the listed company has been downgraded to “D”.
(3)  The  issuer  company  making  the  preferential  issue  shall  ensure  compliance  with  the following conditions: a)  The preference issue shall be made to a person not part of the promoter or promoter group  as on  the  date  of  the  board  meeting  to  consider  the  preferential  issue.  The preference issue shall not be made to the following entities: (i)  undischarged  insolvent  in  terms  of  the  Insolvency  and  Bankruptcy  Code, 2016; (ii) ‘wilful defaulter’ as per the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India issued under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949; (iii) person disqualified to act as a director under the Companies Act,2013; (iv)  a  person  debarred  from  trading  in  securities  or  accessing  the  securities market by the Board; entities mentioned therein  who were debarred  in  the  past  by  the  Board  and the period  of  debarment  is already over as on the date of the board meeting considering the preferential issue. (v)  a person declared as a fugitive economic offender; (vi)  a      person      who      has      been      convicted      for      any      offence      punishable      with imprisonment- A. For two  years or more under any Act  specified under the Twelfth Schedule of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 B.  For seven years or more under any law for the time being in force: Provided that  such  restriction  shall  not  be  applicable  to  a  person  after  the expiry of a period two years from the date of his release from imprisonment. (vii) A  person  who  has  executed  a  guarantee  in  favour  of  a  lender  of  the  issuer  and  such guarantee has been invoked by the lender and remains unpaid in full or part.
(4) The resolution for the preferential issue and exemption from open offer shall provide for the following: a)  The votes cast by the shareholders in the ‘public’ category in favour of the proposal shall be more  than  the  number  of  votes  cast  against  it.  The  proposed  allottee(s)  in  the  preferential issue that already hold specified securities shall not be included in the category of ‘public’ for this purpose: Provided that  where  the company  does  not  have  an  identifiable  promoter;  the resolution shall be deemed to have been passed if the votes cast in favour are not less than three times the number of the votes, if any, cast against it.
(5)  The  proceeds  of  such  preferential  issue  shall  not  be  used  for  any    repayment  of  loans  taken from  promoters/  promoter  group/    group  companies.  The  proposed  use  of  proceeds  shall    be disclosed  in  the  explanatory  statement  sent  for  the  purpose  of  the  shareholder resolution.
(6)  a)  The  issuer  shall  make  arrangements  for  monitoring  the  use  of  proceeds  of  the  issue  by  a public financial institution or by a scheduled commercial bank, which is not a related party to the issuer: (i)  The monitoring agency shall submit its report to the issuer in the format specified in terms  of  Schedule  XI  (with  fields  as  applicable)  on  a  quarterly  basis  until  at  least ninety five percent of the proceeds of the issue have been utilized. (ii) (The  board  of  directors  and  the  management  of  the  issuer  shall  provide  their comments on the findings of the monitoring agency as specified in Schedule XI. (iii) The  issuer  shall,  within  forty  five  days  from  the  end  of  each  quarter,  publicly disseminate the report of the monitoring agency by uploading the same on its website as well as submit the same to the stock exchange(s) on which the equity shares of the issuer are listed. b)  The  proceeds  of  the  issue  shall  also  be  monitored  by  the  Audit   Committee till utilization of the proceeds. 105
(7) The allotment made shall be locked-in for a period of three years from the last date of trading approval.
(8)  The  statutory  auditor  and  the  audit  committee  shall  certify  that  all conditions under sub- regulations (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) of regulation 164A are met at the time of dispatch of notice for general meeting proposed for passing the special resolution and at the time of allotment.] 70[Optional pricing in preferential issue
164B. (1) In case of frequently traded shares, the price of the equity shares to be allotted pursuant to  the  preferential  issue  shall  be determined  by regulation  164 or  regulation 164B, as opted for.
(2) The price of the equity shares to be allotted pursuant to the preferential issue shall not be less than the higher of the following: (a)  the average of the weekly high and low of the volume weighted average price of the  related equity  shares  quoted  on  the recognised  stock  exchange  during  the  twelve weeks preceding the relevant date; or (b)    the  average  of  the  weekly  high  and  low  of  the  volume  weighted  average  prices  of  the related equity shares quoted on a recognised stock exchange during the two weeks preceding the relevant date.
(3) Specified  securities  allotted  on a preferential  basis  using  the  pricing method determined under sub-regulation (2) shall be locked-in for a period of three years.
(4) The pricing method determined  at sub-regulation (2) shall be availed in  case of allotment  by preferential    issue    made    between    July    01,    2020    or    from    the    date    of  notification  of  this regulation, whichever is later and December 31, 2020.
(5)  All  allotments  arising  out  of  the  same  shareholders  approval  shall  follow  the  same  pricing method.] Pricing of infrequently traded shares
165.  Where the shares of an issuer are not frequently traded, the price determined by the issuer shall  take  into  account  the  valuation  parameters  including  book  value,  comparable  trading multiples, and such other parameters as are customary for valuation of shares of such companies: Provided  that  the  issuer  shall  submit  a  certificate  stating  that  the  issuer  is  in  compliance  of  this regulation, obtained from an independent valuer  to the stock exchange where the equity shares of the issuer are listed. Adjustments in pricing - Frequently and Infrequently traded shares
166.  The price determined for a preferential issue in accordance with regulation 164 or regulation 165, shall be subject to appropriate adjustments, if the issuer: a)  makes an issue of equity shares by way of capitalization of profits or reserves, other than by way of a dividend on shares; b)  makes an issue of equity shares after completion of a demerger wherein the securities of the resultant demerged entity are listed on a stock exchange; c)  makes a rights issue of equity shares; consolidates its outstanding equity shares into a smaller number of shares; divides its outstanding equity shares including by way of stock split; re-classifies any of its equity shares into other securities of the issuer; is  involved  in  such  other  similar  events  or  circumstances,  which  in  the  opinion  of  the concerned stock exchange, require adjustments. d) e) f) g) PART V: LOCK-IN AND RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFERABILITY Lock-in
167.  (1)    The  specified  securities,  allotted  on  a  preferential  basis  to  the  promoters  or  promoter group and the equity shares allotted pursuant to exercise of options attached to warrants issued on a preferential basis to the promoters or the promoter group, shall be locked-in for a period of three years  from  the  date  of  trading  approval  granted  for the  specified  securities  or  equity  shares allotted pursuant to exercise of the option attached to warrant, as the case may be: Provided that not more than twenty per cent. of the total capital of the issuer shall be locked-in for three years from the date of trading approval: Provided further that equity shares allotted in excess of the twenty per cent. shall be locked-in for one year from the date of trading approval pursuant to exercise of options or otherwise, as the case may be. Provided  further  that  in  case  of  convertible  securities  or  warrants  which  are  not  listed  on  stock exchanges, such securities shall be locked in for a period of one year from the date of allotment.
(2)    The  specified  securities  allotted  on  a  preferential  basis  to  persons  other  than  the  promoters and  promoter  group  and  the  equity  shares  allotted  pursuant  to  exercise  of  options  attached  to warrants  issued on preferential  basis to  such persons shall be locked-in  for a period of one  year from the date of trading approval. 107 Provided that in case of convertible securities or warrants which are not listed on stock exchanges, such securities shall be locked in for a period of one year from the date of allotment.
(3)    Lock-in  of  the  equity  shares  allotted  pursuant  to  conversion  of  convertible  securities  other than warrants, issued on preferential basis shall be reduced to the extent the convertible securities have already been locked-in.
(4)  The equity shares issued on a preferential basis pursuant to  any resolution of stressed assets under a framework specified by the Reserve Bank of  India or a resolution plan approved by the National  Company  Law  Tribunal  under  the  Insolvency  and  Bankruptcy  Code  2016,  shall  be locked-in for a period of one year from the trading approval:
(5)  If the amount payable by the allottee, in case of re-calculation of price under sub-regulation
(3) of regulation 164 is not paid till the expiry of lock-in period, the equity shares shall continue to be locked-in till such amount is paid by the allottee.
(6)  The  entire  pre-preferential  allotment  shareholding  of  the  allottees,  if  any,  shall  be  locked-in from the relevant date up to a period of six months from the date of trading approval: Provided that in case of convertible securities or warrants which are not listed on stock exchanges, the entire pre-preferential allotment shareholding of the allottees, if any, shall be locked-in  from the relevant date up to a period of six months from the date of allotment of such securities. (I)  The expression “total capital of the issuer” means: (a) equity share capital issued by way of public issue or rights issue including equity shares issued pursuant to conversion of specified securities which are convertible; and (b)  specified  securities  issued  on  a  preferential  basis  to  the  promoters  or  the  promoters group. (II)  For  the  computation  of  twenty  per  cent.  of  the  total  capital  of  the  issuer,  the  amount  of minimum promoters’ contribution held and locked-in, in the past in terms of Securities and Exchange  Board  of  India  (Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection)  Guidelines,  2000  or  these regulations shall be taken into account. (III)  The  minimum  promoters’  contribution  shall  not  be  put  under  fresh  lock-in  again,  even though it is considered for computing the requirement of twenty per cent. of the total capital of the issuer, in case the said minimum promoters’ contribution is free of lock-in at the time of the preferential issue. latest  date  when  trading  approval  has  been  granted  by  all  the  stock  exchanges  where  the  equity shares of the issuer are listed, for specified securities allotted as per the provisions of this Chapter. 108 Transferability
168.  (1)    Subject  to  the  provisions  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial Acquisition  of  shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011,  specified  securities  held  by  promoters and  locked-in  in  terms  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  167,  may  be  transferred  among  the promoters or the promoter group or to a new promoter or persons in control of the issuer: Provided that the lock-in on such specified securities shall continue for the remaining period with the transferee.
(2)    The  specified  securities  allotted  on  a  preferential  basis  shall  not  be  transferable  by  the allottees  till  the  trading  approval  is  granted  for  such  securities  by  all  the  recognised  stock exchanges where the equity shares of the issuer are listed. PART VI: CONSIDERATION AND ALLOTMENT Payment of consideration
169.  (1)  Full  consideration  of  specified  securities  other  than  warrants,  shall  be  paid  by  the allottees  at  the  time  of  allotment  of  such  specified  securities  except  in  case  of  shares  issued  for consideration other than cash. Provided  that  in  case  of  a  preferential  issue  of  specified  securities  pursuant  to  any  resolution  of stressed  assets  under  a  framework  specified  by  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India  or  a  resolution  plan approved  by  the  National  Company  Law  Tribunal  under  the  Insolvency  and  Bankruptcy  Code 2016, the consideration may be in terms of such scheme.
(2)  In  the  case  of  warrants,  an  amount  equivalent  to  at  least  twenty  five  per  cent.  of  the consideration determined in terms of regulation 164 shall be paid against each warrant on the date of allotment of warrants and the balance seventy five per cent. of the consideration shall be paid at the  time  of  allotment  of  the  equity  shares  pursuant  to  exercise  of  options  against  each  such warrant by the warrant holder. Provided that in case the exercise price of the warrants is based on the formula, at least twenty- five  per  cent.  of  the  consideration  amount  calculated  as  per  the  formula  with  conversion  date being the relevant date shall be paid against each warrant on the date of allotment of warrants and the  balance  consideration  shall  be  paid  at  the  time  of  allotment  of  the  equity  shares  pursuant  to exercise of options against each such warrant by the warrant holder.
(3)  In  case  the  warrant  holder  does  not  exercise  the  option  for  equity  shares  against  any  of  the warrants held by the warrant holder, the consideration paid in respect of such warrant in terms of sub-regulation (2) shall be forfeited by the issuer. 109
(4) The issuer shall ensure that the consideration of specified securities, if paid in  cash, shall be received from respective allottee's bank account and in the case of joint holders, shall be received from the bank account of the person whose name appears first in the application.
(5)  The issuer shall submit a certificate from the statutory auditors to the stock exchanges where the equity shares of the issuer are listed stating that the issuer is in compliance of sub-regulation
(4) and the relevant documents thereof are maintained by the issuer as on the date of certification. Allotment
170. (1)  Allotment pursuant to the special resolution shall be completed within a period of fifteen days from the date of passing of such resolution: Provided  that  where  any  application  for  exemption  from  the  applicability  of  the  Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 or any approval or permission by any regulatory authority or the Central Government for allotment is pending, the period of fifteen days shall be counted from the date of the order on such application or the date of approval or permission, as the case may be: Provided  further  that  where  the  Board  has  granted  relaxation  to  the  issuer  in  terms  of  the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) Regulations,  2011,  the  preferential  issue  of  equity  shares  and  compulsorily  convertible  debt instruments, whether fully or partly, shall be made by it within such time as may be specified by the Board in its order granting the relaxation: Provided further that requirement of allotment within fifteen days shall not apply to allotment of specified  securities  on  preferential  basis  pursuant  to  any  resolution  of  stressed  assets  under  a framework specified by the Reserve Bank of India or a resolution plan approved by the National Company Law Tribunal under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016.
(2) If the allotment of the specified securities is not completed within fifteen days from the date of special resolution, a fresh special resolution shall be passed and the relevant date for determining the price of specified securities under this Chapter shall be taken with reference to the date of the latter special resolution.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this regulation, where a preferential allotment is made that  attracts  an  obligation  to  make  an  open  offer  for  shares  of  the  issuer  under  Securities  and Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulation,  2011, and  there  is  no  offer  made  under  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  20  of  the  Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulation, 2011, the period of fifteen days shall be considered from the expiry of the period specified in sub-regulation 110
(1) of regulation 20 or date of receipt of all statutory approvals required for the completion of an open offer under the Securities and Exchange Board of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulation, 2011: Provided that if an offer is  made under sub-regulation  (1) of regulation  20 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulation, 2011, the period  of  fifteen  days  shall  be  counted  from  the  expiry  of  the  offer  period  as  defined  in  the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) Regulation, 2011: Provided further that the provisions of this sub-regulation shall not apply to an offer made under sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  20  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulation, 2011, pursuant to a preferential allotment.”
(4) Allotment of the specified securities shall be made only in dematerialised form. the equity shares to be allotted pursuant to exercise of option attached to warrant or conversion of convertible securities. 111 CHAPTER VI – QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONS PLACEMENT Definitions
171. For the purpose of this Chapter: a)  “eligible securities” include equity shares, non-convertible debt instruments along with warrants and convertible securities other than warrants; b)  "relevant date" means: (i)  in case of allotment of equity shares, the date of the meeting in which the board of directors of  the issuer or  the  committee  of  directors  duly  authorised  by  the  board  of  directors  of  the issuer decides to open the proposed issue; (ii) in case of allotment of eligible convertible securities, either the date of the meeting in which the board of directors of the issuer or the committee of directors duly authorised by the board of directors of the issuer decides to open the issue of such convertible securities or the date on which  the  holders  of  such  convertible  securities  become  entitled  to  apply  for  the  equity shares. PART I: CONDITIONS FOR QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONS PLACEMENT Eligibility conditions
172. (1) A listed issuer may make a qualified institutions placement of eligible securities if it satisfies the following conditions: a) a  special  resolution  approving  the  qualified  institutions  placement  has  been  passed  by  its shareholders,  and  the  special  resolution  shall,  among  other  relevant  matters,  specify  that  the allotment is proposed to be made through qualified institutions placement and the relevant date referred to in sub-clause (ii) of clause (b) of regulation 171; Provided  that  no  shareholders’  resolution  will  be  required  in  case  the  qualified  institutions placement is through an offer for sale by promoters or promoter group for compliance with minimum public shareholding requirements specified in the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957; Provided further that allotment pursuant to the special resolution referred to in this clause (a) of regulation 172 shall be completed within a period of 365 days from the date of passing of the resolution. b) the  equity  shares  of  the  same  class,  which  are  proposed  to  be  allotted  through  qualified institutions  placement  or  pursuant  to  conversion  or  exchange  of  eligible  securities  offered through qualified institutions placement, have been listed on a stock exchange for a period of at 112 least  one  year  prior  to  the  date  of  issuance  of  notice  to  its  shareholders  for  convening  the meeting to pass the special resolution: Provided  that  where  an  issuer,  being  a  transferee  company  in  a  scheme  of  compromise, arrangement  and  amalgamation  sanctioned  by  a  High  Court  under    sections  391-394  of  the Companies Act, 1956 or approved by a tribunal or the Central Government under sections 230 to  234  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013,  whichever  is  applicable  makes  qualified  institutions placement, the period for which the equity shares of the same class of the transferor company were listed on a stock exchange having nation-wide trading terminals shall also be considered for the purpose of computation of the period of one year. Provided  further  that  this  clause  shall  not  be  applicable  to  an  issuer  proposing  to  undertake qualified  institutional  placement  for  complying  with  the  minimum  public  shareholding requirements specified in the Securities Contracts (Regulation) 1957. shares which rank pari-passu in relation to rights as to dividend, voting or otherwise. c)  An issuer shall be eligible to make a qualified institutions placement if any of its promoters or directors is not a fugitive economic offender.
(2)    All  eligible  securities  issued  through  a  qualified  institutions  placement  shall  be  listed  on  the recognised stock exchange where the equity shares of the issuer are listed. Provided  that  the  issuer  shall  seek  approval  under  rule  19(7)  of  the  Securities  Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957, if applicable.
(3) The issuer shall not make any subsequent qualified institutions placement until the expiry of [two weeks]71  from  the  date  of  the  prior  qualified  institutions  placement  made  pursuant  to  one  or  more special resolutions. Conditions  for  offer  for  sale  by  promoters  for  compliance  with  minimum  public shareholding requirements specified in the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957.
173. The promoters and members of the promoter group may make an offer for sale of fully paid up  equity  shares,  through  a  qualified  institutions  placement,  for  the  purpose  of  achieving minimum public shareholding in terms of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957. Provided that the promoters or members of the promoter group shall not make such offer for sale if the promoter or member of the promoter group has purchased or sold any equity shares of the issuer during twelve weeks period prior to the date of the opening of the issue and they shall not purchase 71  Substituted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements) or sell any equity shares of the issuer during the twelve weeks period after the date of closure of the issue: Provided  further  that  such  promoters  or  members  of  the  promoter  group  may,  within  the  twelve week periods provided above,  sell  equity  shares of the issuer  held  by  them through  offer  for sale through  stock  exchange  mechanism  specified  by  the  Board  or  through  an  open  market  sale,  in accordance with the conditions specified by the Board from time to time, subject to the condition that there shall be a gap of minimum two weeks between the two successive offer(s). PART II: APPOINTMENT OF LEAD MANAGERS
174.  (1)  An  issuer  shall  appoint  one  or  more  merchant  bankers,  which  are  registered  with  the Board, as lead manager(s) to the issue.
(2) At least one lead manager to the issue shall not be an associate (as defined under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992) of the issuer and if any of the lead manager is an associate  of the issuer, it shall disclose itself as an associate of the issuer and its role shall be limited to marketing of the issue.
(3)  The  lead  manager(s)  shall,  while  seeking  in-principle  listing  approval  for  the  eligible securities, furnish to each stock exchange on which the same class of  equity shares of the issuer are  listed,  a  due  diligence  certificate  stating  that  the  eligible  securities  are  being  issued  under qualified  institutions  placement  and  that  the  issuer  complies  with  requirements  of  this  Chapter, and  also  furnish  a  copy  of  the  preliminary  placement  document  along  with  any  other  document required by the stock exchange. PART III: PLACEMENT DOCUMENT
175.  (1)  The  lead  manager(s)  shall  exercise  due  diligence  and  shall  satisfy  themselves  with  all aspects of the Issue including the veracity and adequacy of disclosures in the offer document.
(2)  The qualified institutions placement shall be made on the basis of a placement document which shall contain all material information, including those specified in the Companies Act, 2013, if any, and disclosures as specified in  Schedule VII shall be made, including as specified therein if the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a wilful defaulter.
(3)  The  preliminary  placement  document  and  the  placement  document  shall  be  serially  numbered and copies the same shall be circulated only to select investors. 114
(4) The  preliminary  placement  document  and  the  placement  document  shall  be  placed  on  the websites of the relevant stock exchange(s) and of the issuer with a disclaimer to the effect that it is in connection with a qualified institutions placement and that no offer is being made to the public or to any other category of investors. PART IV: PRICING
176. (1) The qualified institutions placement shall be made at a price not less than the average of the weekly high and low of the closing prices of the equity shares of the same class quoted on the stock exchange during the two weeks preceding the relevant date: Provided  that  the  issuer  may  offer  a  discount  of  not  more  than  five  per  cent.  on  the  price  so calculated, subject to approval of shareholders as specified in clause (a) of regulation 172 of these regulations, except that no shareholders’ approval will be required in case of a qualified institutions placement  made  through  an  offer  for  sale  by  promoters  for  compliance  with  minimum  public shareholding requirements specified in the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957.
(2) Where eligible securities are convertible into or exchangeable with equity shares of the issuer, the issuer  shall  determine  the  price  of  such  equity  shares  allotted  pursuant  to  such  conversion  or exchange taking the relevant date as disclosed in the special resolution referred to in clause (a) of sub regulation (1) of regulation 172.
(3) The issuer shall not issue or allot partly paid-up eligible securities: Provided  that  in  case  of  allotment  of  non-convertible  debt  instruments  along  with  warrants,  the allottees may pay the full consideration or part thereof payable with respect to warrants, at the time of allotment of such warrants: Provided further that on allotment of equity shares on exercise of options attached to warrants, such equity shares shall be fully paid-up.
(4) The issue price shall be subject to appropriate adjustments, if the issuer: a)  makes an issue of equity shares by way of capitalization of profits or reserves, other than by way of a dividend on shares; b)  makes a rights issue of equity shares; c)  consolidates its outstanding equity shares into a smaller number of shares; d)  divides its outstanding equity shares including by way of stock split; e)  re-classifies any of its equity shares into other securities of the issuer; f) is  involved  in  such  other  similar  events  or  circumstances,  which  in  the  opinion  of  the concerned stock exchange, requires adjustments. 115 recognised stock exchanges in which the equity shares of the same class of the issuer are listed and in which  the  highest  trading  volume  in  such  equity  shares  has  been  recorded  during  the  two  weeks immediately preceding the relevant date. PART V: TENURE OF CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES
177.  The  tenure  of  the  convertible  or  exchangeable  eligible  securities  issued  through  qualified institutions placement shall not exceed sixty months from the date of allotment. PART VI: TRANSFERABILITY
178. The eligible securities allotted under the qualified institutions placement shall not be sold by the allottee for a period of one year from the date of allotment, except on a recognised stock exchange. PART VII: APPLICATION AND ALLOTMENT
179. (1) The applicants in qualified institutions placement shall not withdraw or revise downwards their bids after the closure of the issue.
(2) Allotment of specified securities shall be made subject to the following conditions: a)  minimum of ten per cent. of eligible securities shall be allotted to mutual funds: Provided  that  any  unsubscribed  portion  of the    said  minimum percentage  or  any  part  thereof may be allotted to other qualified institutional buyers; b) no allotment shall be made, either directly or indirectly, to any qualified institutional buyer who is a promoter or any person related to the promoters of the issuer: Provided that a qualified institutional buyer who does not hold any shares in the issuer and who  has  acquired  the  said  rights  in  the  capacity  of  a  lender  shall  not  be  deemed  to  be  a person related to the promoters. following rights shall be deemed to be a person related to the promoters of the issuer:- (a) rights  under  a  shareholders‘  agreement  or  voting  agreement  entered  into  with promoters or promoter group; (b)  veto rights; or (c) right to appoint any nominee director on the board of the issuer. 116
(3)  In a qualified institutions  placement of non-convertible debt  instrument  along with  warrants, an  investor  can  subscribe  to  the  combined  offering  of  non-convertible  debt  instruments  with warrants  or  to  the  individual  securities,  that  is,  either  non-  convertible  debt  instruments  or warrants. Minimum number of allottees
180. (1) The minimum number of allottees for each placement of eligible securities made under this Chapter shall at least be: a) b) two, where the issue size is less than or equal to two hundred and fifty crore rupees; five, where the issue size is greater than two hundred and fifty crore rupees: Provided that no single allottee shall be allotted more than fifty per cent. of the issue size.
(2) Qualified institutional buyers belonging to the same group or who are under same control shall be deemed to be a single allottee. belonging  to  the  same  group”  shall  mean  entities  where,  -  (i)  any  of  them  controls  directly  or indirectly, through its subsidiary or holding company, not less than fifteen per cent. of the voting rights in the other; or (ii) any of them directly or indirectly, by itself, or in combination with other persons  exercise  control  over  the  others;  or  (iii)  there  is  a  common  director,  excluding  nominee and independent directors amongst the investor, its subsidiary or holding company and any other investor. CHAPTER VII - INITIAL PUBLIC OFFER OF INDIAN DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS APPLICABILITY
181.  The  provisions  of  this  Chapter  shall  apply  to  an  issue  of  Indian  Depository  Receipts (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “IDR”)  made  in  terms  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  and  Companies (Registration of Foreign Companies) Rules, 2014. PART I: ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS Reference date 117
182.  Unless  otherwise  provided  in  this  Chapter,  an  issuer  making  a  public  issue  of  IDRs  shall satisfy the conditions of this Chapter as on the date of filing draft offer document with the Board and also as on the date of 72[filing] the offer document with the Registrar of Companies. Eligibility conditions
183. (1) An issuer shall be eligible to make an issue of IDRs only if: a) the  issuing  company  is  listed  in  its  home  country  for  at  least  three  immediately  preceding years; b) c) the issuer is not prohibited to issue securities by any regulatory body; the issuer has a track record of compliance with the securities market regulations in its home country; d) any of its promoters or directors is not a fugitive economic offender. where the issuer is incorporated and listed.
(2) The issue shall be subject to the following conditions: a) b) c) issue size shall not be less than fifty crore rupees; at any given time, there shall be only one denomination of IDRs of the issuer. issuer  shall  ensure  that  the  underlying  equity  shares  against  which  IDRs  are  issued  have been or will be listed in its home country before listing of IDRs in stock exchange(s). d) issuer shall ensure that the underlying shares of IDRs shall rank pari passu with the existing shares of the same class.
(3) The issuer shall ensure that: a) it has made an application to one or more stock exchanges to seek an in-principle approval for  listing  of  the  IDRs  on  such  stock  exchanges  and  has  chosen  one  of  them  as  the designated stock exchange, in terms of Schedule XIX; b) it  has  entered  into  an  agreement  with  a  depository  for  dematerialisation  of  the  IDRs proposed to be issued; c) it has made firm arrangements of finance through verifiable means towards seventy five per cent.  of  the  stated  means  of  finance  for  the  project  proposed  to  be  funded  from  issue proceeds, excluding the amount to be raised through the proposed issue of IDRs or through existing identifiable internal accruals, have been made.
(4) The amount for general corporate purposes, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the draft offer  document  and  the  offer  document,  shall  not  exceed  twenty  five  per  cent.  of  the amount being raised by the issuer. PART II: APPOINTMENT OF LEAD MANAGERS, OTHER INTERMEDIARIES AND COMPLIANCE OFFICER.
184.  (1)  The  issuer  shall  appoint  one  or  more  merchant  bankers,  which  are  registered  with  the Board, as lead manager(s) to the issue and shall also appoint other intermediaries, in consultation with  the  lead  manager  and  shall  enter  into  an  agreement  with  the  lead  manager  on  the  lines  of format of agreement as specified in Schedule II.
(2)  Where  the  issue  is  managed  by  more  than  one  lead  manager,  the  rights,  obligations  and responsibilities, relating inter alia to disclosures, allotment, refund and underwriting obligations, if any, of each lead manager shall be predetermined and be disclosed in the draft offer document and the offer documents as specified in Schedule I.
(3) At least one lead manager to the issue shall not be an associate (as defined under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992) of the issuer and if any of the lead manager(s) is an associate of the issuer, it shall disclose  itself as an associate of the issuer and its role shall be limited to marketing of the issue.
(4)  The  issuer  shall  appoint  a  registrar  to  the  issue,  registered  with  the  Board,  which  has connectivity with all the depositories.
(5)  The  issuer  shall  enter  into  an  agreement  with  an  overseas  custodian  bank  and  a  domestic depository.
(6)  The  issuing  company  shall  make  arrangements  for  collection  at  centres  as  specified  in Schedule XII.
(7)  The  issuer  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be  responsible  for  monitoring  the compliance of the securities laws and for redressal of investors’ grievances. PART IV: DISCLOSURES IN AND FILING OF OFFER DOCUMENTS Disclosures in the draft offer document and offer document
185.  (1)  The  offer  document  shall  contain  all  material  disclosures  which  are  true,  correct  and adequate to enable the applicants to take an informed investment decision.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the offer document shall contain: 119 (a)  disclosures  specified  in  the  Companies  (Registration  of  Foreign  Companies)  Rules, 2014; and (b)  disclosures in the manner as specified in Part A of Schedule VIII.
(3)  The  lead  manager(s)  shall  exercise  due  diligence  and  satisfy  themselves  about  all  aspects  of the  issue  including  the  veracity  and  adequacy  of  disclosure  in  the  draft  offer  document  and  the offer documents.
(4)  The  lead  manager(s)  shall  call  upon  the  issuer,  its  promoters  or  directors  to  fulfil  their obligations as disclosed by them in the draft offer document or offer document, as the case may be, and as required in terms of these Regulations. Filing of the draft offer document and offer document
186. (1) Prior to making an initial public offer, the issuer shall file three copies of the draft offer document  with  the  Board,  in  accordance  with  Schedule  IV,  along  with  fees  as  specified  in Schedule III, through the lead manager(s).
(2) The draft offer document and the offer documents filed with the Board shall also be furnished to the Board in a soft copy. (3)The lead manager(s) shall: a) submit  a certificate confirming that an agreement has been entered into between the issuer and  the lead manager(s) b) submit a due diligence certificate as per format given in Part H of Schedule V to the Board along with the draft offer document; c) certify  that  all  amendments,  suggestions  or  observations  made  by  the  Board  have  been incorporated in the offer document; d) submit a due diligence certificate as per format given in Part C of Schedule V, at the time of filing the offer document with the Registrar of the Companies. e) a due diligence certificate as per Form D of Schedule V, in the event the issuer has made a disclosure of any material development by issuing a public notice.
(4) The issuer shall, before filing the offer document with  the Registrar  of Companies, file with the Board through the lead manager(s), an updated draft offer document highlighting all changes made in the draft offer document.
(5)  If  there  are  any  changes  in  the  draft  offer  document  in  relation  to  the  matters  specified  in Schedule  XVI,  an  updated  offer  document  or  a  fresh  draft  offer  document,  as  the  case  may  be, shall be filed with the Board along with fees specified in Schedule III. 120
(6)  Copy  of  the  offer  documents  shall  also  be  filed  with  the  Board  and  the  stock  exchange(s) through  the  lead  manager(s)  promptly  after  73[filing]  the  offer  documents  with  the  registrar  of companies. Draft offer document and offer document to be available to the public
187. (1) The draft offer document filed with the Board shall be made public for comments, if any, for a period of at least twenty one days from the date of filing, by hosting it on the websites of the Board, stock exchanges where specified securities are proposed to be listed and lead manager(s) associated with the issue.
(2) The issuer shall, within two days of filing of the draft offer document with the Board, make a public  announcement  in  one  English  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  and  one Hindi national daily newspaper with wide circulation, disclosing to the public the fact of filing of the draft offer document with the Board and inviting the public to provide their comments to the Board,  the  issuer  or  the  lead  manager(s)  in  respect  of  the  disclosures  made  in  the  draft  offer document.
(3) The lead manager(s) shall, after expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (1), file with the  Board,  details  of  the  comments  received  by  them  or  the  issuer  from  the  public,  on  the  draft offer document, during that period and the consequential changes, if any, that are required to be made in the draft offer document.
(4)  The  issuer  and  the  lead  manager(s)  shall  ensure  that  the  offer  documents    are  hosted  on  the websites as required under these regulations and its contents are the same as the versions as filed with the registrar of companies, Board and the stock exchanges, as applicable.
(5) The lead manager(s) and the stock exchanges shall provide copies of the offer document to the public as and when requested and may charge a reasonable sum for providing a copy of the same. PART V - PRICING Pricing
188. (1) The issuer may determine the price of the IDRs in consultation with the lead manager(s) or through the book building process, as the case may be.
(2) The issuer shall undertake the book building process in a manner specified in Schedule XIII. Price and price band Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”. 121
189.  (1)  The  issuer  may  mention  a  price  or  a  price  band in  the  offer  document  (in  case  of  a  fixed price issue) and a floor price or a price band in the red herring prospectus (in case of a book built issue)  and  determine  the  price  at  a  later  date  before  74[filing]  the  prospectus  with  the  Registrar  of Companies: Provided that the prospectus 75[filed] with the Registrar of Companies shall contain only one price or the specific coupon rate, as the case may be.
(2)  The cap on the price band shall be less than or equal to one hundred and twenty per cent of the floor price.
(3) The floor price or the final price shall not be less than the face value of the IDRs.
(4) Where the issuer opts not to make the disclosure of the floor price or price band in the red herring prospectus,  the  issuer  shall  announce  the  floor  price  or  the  price  band  at  least  two  working  days before the opening of the issue  in the same newspapers in which the pre-issue advertisement was released  or  together  with  the  pre-issue  advertisement  in  the  format  prescribed  under  Part  A  of Schedule X.
(5) The  announcement  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (4)  shall  contain  relevant  financial  ratios computed for both upper and lower end of the price band and also a statement drawing attention of the investors to the section titled “basis of issue price” of the offer document.
(6)  The announcement referred to in sub-regulation (4) and the relevant financial ratios referred to in sub-regulation (5) shall be disclosed on the websites of the stock exchange(s) and shall also be pre-filled in the application forms to be made available on the websites of the stock exchange(s). Differential pricing
190. (1) The issuer may offer its IDRs at different prices, subject to the following: a) retail  individual  investors  or  employees  entitled  for  reservation  may  be  offered  specified securities at a price not lower  by more than ten per cent.  of the price at which net offer is made to other categories of applicants, excluding anchor investors. i)     is a resident of India, and ii)      is a permanent and full-time employee or a director, whether whole time or part time, of  the  issuer  or  of  the  holding  company  or  subsidiary  company  or  of  the  material Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”. Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registered”. 122 associate(s) of the issuer, whose financial statements are consolidated with the issuer’s financial statements, working in India and does not include promoters and an immediate relative of the promoter. b) In  case  the  issuer  opts  for  the  alternate  method  of  book  building  in  terms  of  Part  D  of Schedule XIII, the issuer may offer specified securities to its employees at a price not lower by more than ten per cent.  of the floor price.
(2) Discount, if any, shall be expressed in rupee terms in the offer document. PART VI: ISSUANCE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURE Issuance conditions
191. (1) The procedure to be followed by each class of applicant shall be mentioned in the offer document.
(2) The minimum application amount shall be twenty thousand rupees. Allocation in the issue
192. (1) The allocation in the issue shall be as follows: (a)  at  least  fifty  per  cent.  of  the  issue  shall  be  allotted  to  qualified  institutional  buyers  on proportionate basis as per illustration given in Part A of Schedule XIV; (b) the remaining  portion of the issue may be allocated among the categories of non-institutional investors  and  retail  individual  investors  including  employees,  at  the  discretion  of  the  issuer and the manner of allocation shall be disclosed in the offer document. Allotment to investors within a category shall be on proportionate basis: Provided that at least thirty per cent.  of the IDRs being offered in the public issue shall be available for allocation to retail individual investors and in case of under-subscription in retail individual investor category, spill over to other categories to the extent of under subscription may be permitted.
(2)  A  person  shall  not  make  an  application  in  the  net  offer  category  for  a  number  of  IDRs  which exceeds the total number of IDRs offered to the public. Abridged prospectus
193. (1)The abridged prospectus shall contain the disclosures as specified in Part B of Schedule VIII and shall not contain any matter extraneous to the contents of the offer document.
(2) Every  application  form  distributed  by  the  issuer  or  any  other  person  in  relation  to  an  issue shall be accompanied by a copy of the abridged prospectus. 123 ASBA
194.  The  issuer  shall  accept  bids  using  only  the  ASBA  facility  in  the  manner  specified  by  the Board. Availability of issue material
195. The lead manager(s) shall ensure availability of the offer document and other issue material including  application  forms  to  stock  exchanges,  syndicate  members,  registrar  to  issue,  registrar and  share  transfer  agents,  depository  participants,  stock  brokers,  underwriters,  bankers  to  the issue, investors’ associations and self certified syndicate banks before the opening of the issue. Prohibition on payment of incentives
196. Any person connected with the issue shall not offer any incentive, whether direct or indirect, in  any  manner,  whether  in  cash  or  kind  or  services  or  otherwise  to  any  person  for  making  an application  in  the  initial  public  offer,  except  for  fees  or  commission  for  services  rendered  in relation to the issue. Security deposit
197. (1) The issuer shall, before the opening of subscription list, deposit with the designated stock exchange,  an  amount  calculated  at  the  rate  of  one  per  cent.  of  the  issue  size  available  for subscription to the public in the manner specified by Board and/or stock exchange(s).
(2)  The  amount  specified  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  refundable  or  forfeitable  in  the  manner specified by the Board. Underwriting
198. (1) If the issuer making an initial public offer of IDRs, other than through the book building process,  desires  to  have  the  issue  underwritten,  it  shall  appoint  underwriters  in  accordance  with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993.
(2) If the issuer makes a public issue through the book building process, The issue shall be underwritten by lead manager(s) and syndicate member(s): The  issuer  shall,  prior  to  filing  the  prospectus,  enter  into  underwriting  agreement  with  the lead  manager(s),  and  syndicate  member(s),  indicating  therein  the  number  of  specified 124 a) b) securities  which  they  shall  subscribe  to  at  the  predetermined  price  in  the  event  of  under- subscription in the issue. c) If the syndicate member(s) fail to fulfil their underwriting obligations, the  lead manager(s) shall fulfil such underwriting obligations. d) The  lead  manager(s)  and  the  syndicate  member(s)  shall  not  subscribe  to  the  issue  in  any manner except for fulfilling their underwriting obligations. e) In  case  of  every  underwritten  issue,  the  lead  manager(s)  shall  undertake  minimum underwriting  obligations  as  specified  in  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992. f)  where the issue is required to be underwritten, the underwriting obligations should at least to the extent of minimum subscription. Public communications, publicity materials, advertisements and research reports.
199.  All  public  communication,  publicity  materials,  advertisements  and  research  reports  shall comply with the provisions of Schedule IX, subject to the following: a) advertisements  made  in  India  or  any  research  report  circulated  in  India,  pertaining  to  the IDR issue of the issuing company; b) the applicability of clauses (2) and (3) shall be restricted to any public communications and publicity material issued or published in any media in India; c) the  applicability  of  clauses  (4)  and  (5)  shall  be  restricted  to  any  material  or  information released in India and any issue advertisements and publicity materials issued or published in any media in India; d) the applicability of clause (10) shall be restricted to any product advertisement of the issuer issued or published in any media in India; all other provisions of Schedule IX shall be applicable. e) Issue-related advertisements
200. (1)The issuer may release advertisements for issue opening and issue closing, which shall be in the formats specified in Parts B and C of Schedule X.
(2) During the period the issue is open for subscription, no advertisement shall be released giving an impression that the issue has been fully subscribed or oversubscribed or indicating investors’ response to the issue. 125
(3) An announcement regarding closure of the issue shall be made only after the lead manager(s) is satisfied  that  at  least  ninety  per  cent.  of  the  issue  has  been  subscribed  and  a  certificate  has  been obtained to that effect from the registrar to the issue: Provided that such an announcement shall not be made before the date on which the issue is to be closed except for issue closing advertisement made in the format prescribed in these regulations. Opening of the issue
201. (1)Subject to the compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, a public issue may be opened: a)  within  twelve  months  from  the  date  of  issuance  of  the  observations  by  the  Board  under regulation 6; or
(2)  an  issue  shall  be  opened  after  at  least  three  working  days  from  the  date  of  76[filing]  the prospectus with the Registrar of Companies. Minimum subscription
202. (1) The minimum subscription to be received in the issue shall be at least ninety per cent. of the offer through the offer document.
(2) For non-underwritten issues: a) If the issuer does not  receive the minimum subscription of ninety per cent. of the offer  through  offer  document  on  the  date  of  closure  of  the  issue,  or  if  the subscription level falls below ninety per cent. after the closure of issue, the issuer shall  forthwith  refund  through  verifiable  means  the  entire  subscription  amount received. b) If the issuer fails to refund the entire subscription amount within fifteen days from the date of the closure of the issue, it is liable to pay the amount with interest to the subscribers at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum for the period of delay.
(3) For underwritten issues: (a) If the issuer does not  receive the minimum subscription of ninety per cent. of the offer  through  offer  document  including  devolvement  of  underwriters,  all application  monies  received  shall  be  refunded  through  verifiable  means  to  the applicants forthwith, but not later than fifteen days from the closure of the issue. Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”. 126 (b) If the issuer fails to refund the entire subscription amount within fifteen days from the date of the closure of the issue, it is liable to pay the amount with interest to the subscribers at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum for the period of delay.
(4)  In  case  of  an  undersubscribed  issue  that  is  underwritten,  the  lead  manager(s)  shall  furnish information  to  the  Board  in  respect  of  underwriters  who  have  failed  to  meet  their  underwriting devolvement in the format specified in Schedule XVIII. Period of subscription
203. (1) Except as otherwise provided in these regulations, an initial public offer of IDRs shall be kept open for at least three working days and not more than ten working days.
(2) In case of a revision in the price band, the issuer shall extend the bidding (issue) period disclosed in the red herring prospectus, for a minimum period of three working days, subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (1).
(3) In case of force  majeure, banking strike or similar circumstances, the issuer may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend the bidding (issue)  period disclosed in the red herring prospectus (in case  of  a  book  built  issue)  or the issue  period  disclosed  in  the  prospectus (in  case  of  a  fixed  price issue), for a minimum period of three working days, subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (1). Allotment procedure and basis of allotment
204.  (1)  The  issuer  shall  not  make  any  allotment  in  excess  of  the  specified  securities  offered through the offer document except in case of oversubscription for the purpose of rounding off to make allotment, in consultation with the designated stock exchange. Provided that in case of oversubscription, an allotment of not more than one per cent. of the net offer to public may be made for the purpose of making allotment in minimum lots.
(2) The allotment of specified securities to applicants other than retail individual investors shall be on  proportionate  basis  within  the  respective  investor  categories  and  the  number  of  securities allotted shall be rounded off to the nearest integer, subject to minimum allotment being equal to the minimum application size as determined and disclosed in the offer document: Provided  that  value  of  specified  securities  allotted  to  retail  individual  investors  shall  not  exceed two lakhs rupees.
(3) The allotment of specified securities to each retail individual investor shall not be less than the minimum  bid  lot,  subject  to  availability  of  shares  in  retail  individual  investor  category,  and  the remaining available shares, if any, shall be allotted on a proportionate basis. 127
(4) The authorised employees of the designated stock exchange,  along with the  lead manager(s) and registrars to the issue, shall ensure that the basis of allotment is finalised in a fair and proper manner in accordance with the allotment procedure as specified in Part A of Schedule XIV. Allotment, refund and payment of interest
205. (1) The issuer shall ensure that the letters of allotment for the IDRs are issued simultaneously to  all  allottees  and  that  in  the  event  of  it  being  impossible  to  issue  letters  of  regret  at  the  same time, a notice to that effect shall be issued in the media so that it appears on the morning after the letters of allotment have been despatched.
(2) The issuer and lead manager(s) shall ensure that the IDRs are allotted and/or application monies are refunded or unblocked within such period as may be specified by the Board.
(3)  The  lead  manager(s)  shall  ensure  that  the  allotment,  credit  of  dematerialised  securities, refunding or unlocking of application monies, as may be applicable, are done electronically.
(4)  Where  the  specified  securities  are  not  allotted  and/or  application  monies  are  not  refunded  or unblocked within the period stipulated in sub-regulation (1) above, the issuer shall undertake to pay interest at the rate of fifteen per cent per annum to the investors and within such time as disclosed in the offer document and the  lead manager(s) shall ensure the same. Post-issue advertisements
206.  (1)  The  lead  manager(s)  shall  ensure  that  advertisement  giving  details  relating  to subscription,  basis  of  allotment,  number,  value  and  percentage  of  all  applications  including ASBA, number, value and percentage of successful allottees for all applications including ASBA, date  of  completion  of  despatch  of  refund  orders,  as  applicable,  or  instructions  to  self-certified syndicate banks by the registrar, date of credit of the IDRs and date of filing of listing application, etc. is released within ten days from the date of completion of the various activities in at least one English national daily newspaper with wide circulation, one Hindi national daily newspaper with wide circulation.
(2)  Details  specified  in  sub  regulation  (1)  shall  also  be  placed  on  the  websites  of  the  stock exchanges where the securities are listed. Post-issue responsibilities of the lead manager(s)
207.  (1)  The  responsibility  of  the  lead  manager(s)  shall  continue  until  completion  of  the  issue process and for any issue related matter thereafter.
(2) The lead manager(s) shall regularly monitor redressal of investor grievances arising from any issue related activities. 128
(3) The lead manager(s)  shall continue to be responsible for post-issue activities till the applicants have received the credit of IDRs to their account or refund of application monies and the listing agreement is entered into by the issuer with the stock exchange and listing or trading permission is obtained.
(4) The lead manager(s) shall be responsible for and co-ordinate with  the registrars to  the issue and  with  various  intermediaries  at  regular  intervals  after  the  closure  of  the  issue  to  monitor  the flow of applications from syndicate member(s) or collecting bank branches and/ or self-certified syndicate  banks  processing  of  the  applications  including  application  form  for  ASBA  and  other matters  till  the  basis  of  allotment  is  finalised,  credit  of  the  specified  securities  to  the  demat accounts  of  the  allottees  and  unblocking  of  ASBA  accounts/  despatch  of  refund  orders  are completed and securities are listed, as applicable.
(5) Any act of omission or commission on the part of any of the intermediaries noticed by the lead manager(s) shall be duly reported by them to the Board. (6)In  case  there  is  a  devolvement  on  the  underwriters,  the  lead  manager(s)  shall  ensure  that  the notice  for  devolvement  containing  the  obligation  of  the  underwriters  is  issued  within  ten  days from the date of closure of the issue.
(7)  In  case  of  undersubscribed  issues  that  are  underwritten,  the  lead  manager(s)  shall  furnish information  to  the  Board  in  respect  of  underwriters  who  have  failed  to  meet  their  underwriting devolvement in the format specified in Schedule XVIII. Release of subscription money
208. (1) The lead manager(s) shall confirm to the bankers to the issue by way of copies of listing and  trading  approvals  that  all  formalities  in  connection  with  the  issue  have  been  completed  and that the banker is free to release the money to the issuer or release the money for refund in case of failure of the issue.
(2) In case the issuer fails to obtain listing or trading permission from the stock exchanges where the  specified  securities  were  listed,  it  shall  refund  through  verifiable  means  the  entire  monies received within seven days of receipt of intimation from stock exchanges rejecting the application for  listing  of  IDRs,  if  any  such  money  is  not  repaid  within  eight  days  after  the  issuer  becomes liable to repay it the issuer and every director of the company who is an officer in default shall, on and  from  the  expiry  of  the  eighth  day,  be  jointly  and  severally  liable  to  repay  that  money  with interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum.
(3) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the monies received in respect of the issue are released to the issuer in compliance with the provisions of the Section 40 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013, as applicable. 129 Reporting of transactions by the promoters and promoter group
209. (1) The issuer shall ensure that transactions in securities by the promoters and promoter group during the period between the date of filing of the draft offer document or offer document, as the case may be, and the date of closure of the issue shall be reported to the stock exchange(s) within twenty four hours of such transactions. Post-issue reports
210.  The  lead  manager(s)  shall  submit  a  final  post-issue  report  on  the  lines  of  Parts  A  of Schedule  XVII, along with  a due diligence certificate as per the format  specified in  Form  F of Schedule  V,  within  seven  days  of  the  date  of  finalisation  of  basis  of  allotment  or  within  seven days of refund of money in case of failure of issue. Fungibility
211.  The  IDRs  shall  be  fungible  into  the  underlying  equity  shares  of  the  issuer  in  the  manner specified by the Board and Reserve Bank of India, from time to time. CHAPTER VIII - RIGHTS ISSUE OF INDIAN DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS Applicability
212.    In  addition  to  compliance  with  Chapter  VII,  wherever  applicable,  a  listed  issuer  offering IDRs  through  a  rights  issue  shall  satisfy  the  conditions  specified  in  this  Chapter  at  the  time  of filing the offer document: Provided that the provisions of the following regulations shall not be applicable in case of rights issue of IDRs: regulation 191 sub-regulation (1) of regulation 192 clause (a) of sub regulation (2) of regulation 183 regulation 205; and sub-regulation (2) of regulation 185. a) b) c) d) e) Entities not eligible to make a rights issue
213. An issuer shall not be eligible to make a rights issue of IDRs if – (a)  at  the  time  of  undertaking  the  rights  issue,  the  issuer  is  in  breach  of  ongoing  material obligations under the listing agreement and the  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 as may be applicable to such issuer 130 or material obligations under the deposit agreement entered into between the domestic depository and the issuer at the time of initial offering of IDRs; (b) any of its promoters or directors is a fugitive economic offender. General conditions
214.  The  issuer  shall  ensure  that  it  has  made  an  application  to  all  the  stock  exchanges  in  India, where  its  IDRs  are  already  listed,  for  listing  of  the  IDRs  to  be  issued  by  way  of  rights  and  has chosen one of them as the designated stock exchange, in terms of Schedule XIX. Renunciation by an IDR holder
215. Unless the laws of the home jurisdiction of the issuer otherwise provide, the rights issue shall be deemed to include a right exercisable by the person concerned to renounce the IDRs offered to the  IDR  holder  in  favour  of  any  other  person  subject  to  applicable  laws  and  the  same  shall  be disclosed in the offer document. Depository
216.  The  domestic  depository  shall,  in  accordance  with  the  depository  agreement  executed  with the issuer at the time of initial offering of IDR, take such steps as are necessary to enable the IDR holders  to  have  entitlements  under  the  rights  offering  and  issue  additional  IDRs  to  such  IDR holders, distribute the rights to the IDR holders or renouncees or arrange for the IDR holders or renouncees  to  subscribe  for  any  additional  rights  which  are  available  due  to  lack  of  take-up  by other holders of underlying shares. Record date
217. (1) An issuer making a rights issue of IDRs shall, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements) Regulations,  2015,  the  issuer  shall  announce  a  record  date  for  the  purpose  of  determining  the shareholders eligible to apply for IDRs in the proposed rights issue.
(2)  If  the  issuer  withdraws  the  rights  issue  after  announcing  the  record  date,  it  shall  notify  the Board about the same and shall notify the same in one English national daily newspaper with wide circulation, one Hindi national daily newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language daily newspaper with wide circulation at the place where principal office of the issuer is situated in India. If the issuer withdraws the rights issue after announcing the record date, it shall not make an application for offering of IDRs on a rights basis for a period of twelve months from the said record date. 131 Disclosures in the offer document and the addendum
218. (1)  The offer document for the rights offering shall contain disclosures as required under the home country regulations of the issuer.
(2) An additional wrap (addendum to offer document) shall be attached to the offer document to be circulated in  India containing information as specified in  Part C of Schedule VIII and other instructions as to the procedures and process to be followed with respect to rights issue of IDRs in India.
(3) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulations (1) and (2), the offer document and the addendum  attached  with  it,  shall  contain  all  material  information,  which  are  true,  correct  and adequate, so as to enable the applicants to take an informed investment decision. Appointment of lead managers and compliance officer
219.  (1)  The  issuer  shall  appoint  one  or  more  merchant  bankers,  which  are  registered  with  the Board,  as  a  lead  manager(s)  to  the  issue    and  shall  also  appoint  other  intermediaries,  in consultation with the lead manager, to carry out the obligations relating to the issue.
(2) The issuer shall ensure that the compliance officer, in charge of ensuring compliance with the obligations under this Chapter, functions from within the territorial limits of India. Filing of draft offer document and the addendum for rights offering
220. (1)  The issuer shall, through the lead  manager(s), file the draft offer document prepared in accordance with the home country requirements along with  an addendum containing disclosures as specified in Part C of Schedule VIII with the Board, as a confidential filing accompanied with fees as specified in Schedule III.
(2)  The  Board  may  specify  changes  or  issue  observations  on  the  draft  offer  document  and  the addendum within thirty days from the later of the following dates : (a)  the date of receipt of the draft offer document prepared in  accordance with the home country requirements along with an addendum under sub-regulation (2); or (b) the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the lead manager(s), where the Board has sought any clarification or additional information from them; or (c)  the date of receipt of clarification or information from any regulator or agency, where the Board has sought any clarification or information from such regulator or agency; or (d)  the  date  of  receipt  of  a  copy  of  in-principle  approval  letter  issued  by  the  stock exchanges. 132
(3) If the Board specifies any changes or issues observations on the draft offer document and the addendum under sub-regulation (3), the issuer and the lead manager(s) shall file the revised draft offer  document  and  the  updated  addendum  after  incorporating  the  changes    specified  by  the Board.
(4)  The  issuer  shall  also  submit  an  undertaking  from  the  overseas  custodian  and  domestic depository addressed to the issuer, to comply with their obligations with respect to the said rights issue under their respective agreements entered into between them, along with the offer document. Pricing
221. The issue price and the ratio shall be decided simultaneously with record date in accordance with the home country regulations. Availability of Issue Material
222. (1) The abridged letter of offer, containing disclosures as specified in Part B of Schedule IX, for a  rights  offering, along with  application form, shall be dispatched through  registered post or speed post or by courier service or by electronic mode to all the eligible IDR holders at least three days  before  the  date  of  opening  of  the  issue  and  shall  be  made  available  on  the  website  of  the issuer with appropriate access restrictions at the same time it is made available to the holders of its equity shares. Provided  that  a  hard  copy  of  the  offer  document  for  a  rights  offering  along  with  the  addendum shall be made available at the principal office of the issuer or lead  manager to any existing IDR holder who has made a request in this regard.
(2) The eligible IDR holders who have not received the application form may apply in writing on a  plain  paper  to  the  domestic  depository,  along  with  the  requisite  application  money  within  the time frame for acceptance.
(3) The eligible IDR holders making an application otherwise than on the application form shall not  renounce  their  rights  and  shall  not  utilise  the  application  form  for  any  purpose  including renunciation even if it is received subsequently.
(4)  Where  any  eligible  IDR  holder  makes  an  application  on  an  application  form  as  well  as  on plain paper, such application is liable to be rejected. Issue-related advertisement
223. (1) The issuer shall issue an advertisement for the rights issue disclosing the following: a) the date of completion of despatch of the abridged letter of offer and the application form; 133 b) the centres other than principal office of the issuer in  India where the eligible IDR holders may  obtain  duplicate  copies  of  the  application  forms  in  case  they  do  not  receive  the application form within a reasonable time after opening of the rights issue; c) a  statement  that  if  the  eligible  IDR  holders  have  neither  received  the  original  application forms nor they are in a position to obtain the duplicate forms, they may make application in writing on a plain paper to subscribe to the rights issue; d) a  format  to  enable  the  eligible  IDR  holders,  to  make  the  application  on  a  plain  paper specifying  therein  necessary  particulars  such  as  name,  address,  ratio  of  rights  issue,  issue price,  number  of  IDRs  held,  ledger  folio  numbers,  depository  participant  ID,  client  ID, number  of  IDRs  entitled  and  applied  for,  amount  to  be  paid  along  with  application,  and particulars of cheque, etc. to be drawn in favour of the issuer’s account; e) a  statement  that  the  applications  can  be  directly  sent  by  the  eligible  IDR  holders  through registered post together with the application monies to the issuer's designated official at the address given in the advertisement; f) a statement to the effect that if the eligible IDR holder makes an application on plain paper and also on application form both the applications shall be liable to be rejected at the option of the issuer.
(2) The advertisement  shall be made in  at  least  one English national  daily  newspaper with  wide circulation, one Hindi national daily newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language daily newspaper with wide circulation at the place where principal office of the issuer is situated in India at least three days before the date of opening of the issue. Period of subscription and issue of allotment letter
224. (1) A rights issue shall be open for subscription in India for a period as applicable under the laws of its home country but in no case less than ten days.
(2) The issuing company shall ensure that it sends the allotment letter of rights to IDR holders at the time these are sent to shareholders of the issuing company as per the requirement of its home country or other jurisdictions where its securities are listed. Utilisation of funds
225.  The  issuer  shall  utilise  funds  raised  in  relation  to  the  IDRs  pursuant  to  the  rights  offering only upon completion of the allotment process. Fast track issue 134
226. (1) Nothing contained in sub-regulations (1) of regulation 221, (1), (2) and (3) of regulation 222 shall apply, if the issuer satisfies the following conditions: a) the issuer is in compliance in all material respects with the provisions of deposit agreement and  the  provisions  of  listing  agreements  (or  listing  conditions)  applicable  in  all  the jurisdictions  wherever  the  issuer  is  listed,  for  a  period  of  at  least  three  years  immediately preceding  the  date  of  filing  of  the  offer  document,  and  a  certification  to  this  effect  is provided by the issuer; b) the offer document for the rights  offering of the  securities of the issuer has been filed  and reviewed by the securities regulator in the home country of the issuer; c) there are no pending show-cause notices or prosecution proceedings against the issuer or its promoters, where applicable, or whole time directors on the reference date by the Board or the  regulatory  authorities  in  its  home  country  restricting  them  from  accessing  the  capital markets; and d) the issuer has redressed at least ninety five per cent. of the complaints received from the IDR holders before the end of the three months period immediately preceding the month of date of filing the letter of offer with the designated stock exchange.
(2) Where the conditions in sub-regulation (1) are satisfied, the issuer may opt for rights issue of IDRs  by  filing  a  copy  of  the  offer  document  prepared  in  accordance  with  the  home  country requirements along with an addendum containing disclosures as specified in Part C of Schedule VIII with the Board for record purposes, before filing the same with the stock exchanges. CHAPTER IX - INITIAL PUBLIC OFFER BY SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES Reference date
227.  Unless  otherwise  provided  in  this  Chapter,  an  issuer  making  an  initial  public  offer  of specified securities shall satisfy the conditions of this Chapter as on the date of filing of the draft offer document with  the SME exchange and also as on the date of  77[filing] the offer document with the Registrar of Companies. PART I: ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS Entities not eligible to make an initial public offer
228.  An issuer shall not be eligible to make an initial public offer: Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”. 135 (a) if  the  issuer,  any  of  its  promoters,  promoter  group  or  directors  or  selling  shareholders  are debarred from accessing the capital market by the Board; (b) if  any  of  the  promoters  or  directors  of  the  issuer  is  a  promoter  or  director  of  any  other company which is debarred from accessing the capital market by the Board; if the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a wilful defaulter. if any of its promoters or directors is a fugitive economic offender. entities  mentioned  therein,  who  were  debarred  in  the  past  by  the  Board  and    the  period  of debarment is already over as on the date of filing of the draft offer document with the SME Exchange. (c) (d) Eligibility requirements for an initial public offer
229. (1) An issuer shall be eligible to  make  an initial  public offer only if  its  post-issue paid-up capital  is less than or equal to ten crore rupees.
(2) An issuer, whose post issue face value capital is more than ten crore rupees and upto twenty five  crore  rupees,  may  also  issue  specified  securities  in  accordance  with  provisions  of  this Chapter.
(3) An issuer may make an  initial public offer, if it satisfies track record and/or other eligibility conditions of the SME Exchange(s) on which the specified securities are proposed to be listed. Provided  that  In  case  of  an  issuer  which  had  been  a  partnership  firm  or  a  limited  liability partnership,  the  track  record  of  operating  profit  of  the  partnership  firm  or  the  limited  liability partnership shall be considered only if the financial statements of the partnership business for the period during which the issuer was a partnership firm or a limited liability partnership, conform to and are revised in the format prescribed for companies under the Companies Act, 2013  and also comply with the following: a)  adequate  disclosures  are  made  in  the  financial  statements  as  required  to  be  made  by  the issuer as per Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013; b)  the financial statements  are duly  certified by auditors, who have subjected  themselves to the peer review process of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) and hold a  valid  certificate  issued  by  the  Peer  Review  Board‘  of  the  ICAI,  stating  that:  (i)  the accounts and the disclosures made are in accordance with the provisions of Schedule III of the  Companies  Act,  2013;  (ii)  the  accounting  standards  prescribed  under  the  Companies Act, 2013 have been followed; (iii) the financial statements present a true and fair view of the firm‘s accounts; 136 Provided  further  that  in  case  of  an  issuer  formed  out  of  merger  or  a  division  of  an  existing company,  the  track  record  of  the  resulting  issuer  shall  be  considered  only  if  the  requirements regarding financial statements as specified above in the first proviso are complied with. General conditions
230. (1) An issuer making an initial public offer shall ensure that: (a)  it has made an application to one or more SME exchanges for listing of its specified securities on such SME exchange(s) and has chosen one of them as the designated stock exchange, in terms of Schedule XIX: (b) it  has  entered  into  an  agreement  with  a  depository  for  dematerialisation  of  its  specified securities already issued and proposed to be issued; (c)  all its existing partly paid-up equity shares have either been fully paid-up or forfeited; (d)  all specified securities held by the promoters are in the dematerialised form; (e) it has made firm arrangements of finance through verifiable means towards seventy five per cent.  of  the  stated  means  of  finance  for  the  project  proposed  to  be  funded  from  the  issue proceeds,  excluding  the  amount  to  be  raised  through  the  proposed  public  offer    or  through existing identifiable internal accruals. cover the objects of the issue
(2) The amount for  general  corporate purposes, as mentioned in  objects  of the issue in  the draft offer  document  and  the  offer  document  shall  not  exceed  twenty  five  per  cent.  of  the amount being raised by the issuer. PART II: ISSUE OF CONVERTIBLE DEBT INSTRUMENTS AND WARRANTS
231.    An  issuer  shall  be  eligible  to  make  an  initial  public  offer  of  convertible  debt  instruments even without making a prior public issue of its equity shares and listing thereof. Provided that an issuer shall not be eligible if it is in default of payment of interest or repayment of principal amount in respect of debt instruments issued by it to the public, if any, for a period of more than six months. Additional requirements for issue of convertible debt instruments
232.  (1)  In  addition  to  other  requirements  laid  down  in  these  regulations,  an  issuer  making  an initial  public  offer  of  convertible  debt  instruments  shall  also  comply  with  the  following conditions: a) it has obtained credit rating from at least one credit rating agency; 137 b) it  has  appointed  at  least  one  debenture  trustees  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the Companies Act, 2013 and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993; c) it  shall  create  a  debenture  redemption  reserve  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder; d) if  the  issuer  proposes  to  create  a  charge  or  security  on  its  assets  in  respect  of  secured convertible debt instruments, it shall ensure that: i) ii) such assets are sufficient to discharge the principal amount at all times; such assets are free from any encumbrance; iii)  where security is  already  created on such  assets in  favour of  any existing lender or security trustee or the issue of convertible debt instruments is proposed to be secured by  creation  of  security  on  a  leasehold  land,  the  consent  of  such  lender  or  security trustee or lessor for a second or pari passu charge has been obtained and submitted to the debenture trustee before the opening of the issue; iv) the security or asset cover shall be arrived at after reduction of the liabilities having a first or prior charge, in case the convertible debt instruments are secured by a second or subsequent charge.
(2) The issuer shall redeem the convertible debt instruments as stipulated in the offer document. Conversion of optionally convertible debt instruments into equity share capital
233. (1) The issuer shall not convert its optionally convertible debt instruments into equity shares unless  the  holders  of  such  convertible  debt  instruments  have  sent  their  positive  consent  to  the issuer  and  non-receipt  of  reply  to  any  notice  sent  by  the  issuer  for  this  purpose  shall  not  be construed as consent for conversion of any convertible debt instruments.
(2) Where the value of the convertible portion of any listed convertible debt instruments issued by a issuer exceeds fifty lakh rupees and the issuer has not determined the conversion price of such convertible debt instruments at the time of making the issue, the holders of such convertible debt instruments shall be given the option of not converting the convertible portion into equity shares: Provided  that  where  the  upper  limit  on  the  price  of  such  convertible  debt  instruments  and justification thereon is determined and disclosed to the investors at the time of making the issue, it shall not  be necessary to give such option to  the  holders of the  convertible debt instruments  for converting the convertible portion into equity share capital within the said upper limit.
(3) Where an option is to be given to the holders of the convertible debt instruments in terms of sub-regulation  (2)  and  if  one  or  more  of  such  holders  do  not  exercise  the  option  to  convert  the instruments  into  equity  share  capital  at  a  price  determined  in  the  general  meeting  of  the 138 shareholders, the issuer shall redeem that part of the instruments within one month from the last date by which option is to be exercised, at a price which shall not be less than its face value.
(4)  The  provision  of  sub-regulation  (3)  shall  not  apply  if  such  redemption  is  in  terms  of  the disclosures made in the offer document. Issue of convertible debt instruments for financing
234. An issuer shall not issue convertible debt instruments for financing or for providing loans to or for acquiring shares of any person who is part of the promoter group or group companies; Provided  that  an  issuer  shall  be  eligible  to  issue  fully  convertible  debt  instruments  for  these purposes if the period of conversion of such debt instruments  is  less than eighteen months  from the date of issue of such debt instruments. Issue of warrants
235. An issuer shall be eligible to issue warrants in an initial public offer subject to the following: a) the tenure of such warrants shall not exceed eighteen months from their date of allotment in the initial public offer; b)  A specified security may have one or more warrants  attached to  it; c) the price or formula for determination of exercise price of the warrants shall be determined upfront  and  disclosed  in  the  offer  document  and  at  least  twenty-five  per  cent.  of  the consideration amount based on the exercise price shall also be received upfront; Provided  that  in  case  the  exercise  price  of  warrants  is  based  on  a  formula,  twenty-five  per cent. consideration amount based on the cap price of the price band determined for the linked equity shares or convertible securities shall be received upfront.; d) in case the warrant holder does not  exercise the option to take equity shares against any of the warrants  held  by  the warrant  holder,  within three  months from  the date of payment  of consideration, such consideration made in respect of such warrants shall be forfeited by the issuer. PART III:  PROMOTERS’ CONTRIBUTION Minimum promoters’ contribution
236. (1) The promoters of the issuer shall hold at least twenty per cent. of the post-issue capital: Provided  that  in  case  the  post-issue  shareholding  of  the  promoters  is  less  than  twenty  per  cent., alternative investment  funds or foreign venture capital  investors or scheduled commercial banks or public financial institutions or insurance companies registered with  Insurance Regulatory and 139 Development Authority of India may contribute to meet the shortfall in minimum contribution as specified for the promoters, subject to a maximum of ten per cent. of the post-issue capital without being identified as promoter(s); Provided further that the requirement of minimum promoters’ contribution shall not apply in case an issuer does not have any identifiable promoter.
(2) The minimum promoters’ contribution shall be as follows: a) the  promoters  shall  contribute  twenty  per  cent.  as  stipulated  sub-regulation  (1),  as  the  case may  be,  either  by  way  of  equity  shares  or  by  way  of  subscription  to  the  convertible securities: Provided  that  if  the  price  of  the  equity  shares  allotted  pursuant  to  conversion  is  not  pre- determined and not disclosed in the offer document, the promoters shall contribute only by way  of  subscription  to  the  convertible  securities  being  issued  in  the  public  offer  and  shall undertake  in  writing  to  subscribe  to  the  equity  shares  pursuant  to  conversion  of  such securities. b) in  case  of  any  issue  of  convertible  securities  which  are  convertible  or  exchangeable  on different  dates  and  if  the  promoters’  contribution  is  by  way  of  equity  shares  (conversion price being pre-determined), such contribution shall not be at a price lower than the weighted average price of the equity share capital arising out of conversion of such securities. c) subject  to  the  provisions  of  clause  (a)  and  (b)  above,  in  case  of  an  initial  public  offer  of convertible debt instruments without a prior public issue of equity shares, the promoters shall bring in  a  contribution  of at  least  twenty per  cent.  of the project  cost  in  the form  of equity shares, subject to contributing at least twenty per cent. of the issue size from its own funds in the form of equity shares: Provided that if the project is to be implemented in stages, the promoters’ contribution shall be with respect to total equity participation till the respective stage vis-à-vis the debt raised or proposed to be raised through the public offer. d)  The promoters shall satisfy the requirements  of this regulation  at  least  one day prior to  the date of opening of the issue. e) In  case  the  promoters  have  to  subscribe  to  equity  shares  or  convertible  securities  towards minimum promoters’ contribution, the amount of promoters’ contribution shall be kept in an escrow  account  with  a  scheduled  commercial  bank,  which  shall  be  released  to  the  issuer along with the release of the issue proceeds: Provided that where the promoters’ contribution has already been brought in and utilised, the issuer  shall  give  the  cash  flow  statement  disclosing  the  use  of  such  funds  in  the  offer document; 140 (I)  Promoters’ contribution shall be computed on the basis of the post-issue expanded capital: (a) assuming full proposed conversion of convertible securities into equity shares; (b)  assuming  exercise  of  all  vested  options,  where  any  employee  stock  options  are outstanding at the time of initial public offer. (II)  For computation of “weighted average price”: (a) “weights” means the number of equity shares arising out of conversion of such specified securities into equity shares at various stages; (b) “price” means the price of equity shares on conversion arrived at after taking into account predetermined conversion price at various stages. Securities ineligible for minimum promoters’ contribution
237.  (1)  For  the  computation  of  minimum  promoters’  contribution,  the  following  specified securities shall not be eligible: a) specified securities acquired during the preceding three years, if they are: (i) acquired for consideration other than cash and revaluation of assets or capitalisation of intangible assets is involved in such transaction; or (ii) resulting from a bonus issue by utilisation of revaluation reserves or unrealised profits of  the  issuer  or  from  bonus  issue  against  equity  shares  which  are  ineligible  for minimum promoters’ contribution; b) specified  securities  acquired  by  the  promoters  and  alternative  investment  funds  or  foreign venture  capital  investors  or  scheduled  commercial  banks  or  public  financial  institutions  or insurance  companies  registered  with  Insurance  Regulatory  and  Development  Authority  of India,  during  the  preceding  one  year  at  a  price  lower  than  the  price  at  which  specified securities are being offered to the public in the initial public offer: Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply: (i) if  the  promoters  and  alternative  investment  funds  as  applicable,  pay  to  the  issuer  the difference between the price at which the specified securities are offered in the initial public offer and the price at which the specified securities had been acquired; (ii) if such specified securities are acquired in terms of the scheme under 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956 or sections 230 to 234 of the Companies Act, 2013, as approved by a High Court or a tribunal, as applicable, by the promoters in lieu of business and invested capital that had been in existence for a period of more than one year prior to such approval; 141 (iii)  to an initial public offer by a government company, statutory authority or corporation or any  special  purpose  vehicle  set  up  by  any  of  them,  which  is  engaged  in  the infrastructure sector; c) specified  securities  allotted  to  the  promoters  and  alternative  investment  funds    during  the preceding  one  year  at  a  price  less  than  the  issue  price,  against  funds  brought  in  by  them during  that  period,  in  case  of  an  issuer  formed  by  conversion  of  one  or  more  partnership firms or limited liability  partnerships, where the partners of the erstwhile partnership firms or limited liability partnerships are the promoters of the issuer and there is no change in the management: Provided  that  specified  securities,  allotted  to  the  promoters  against  the  capital  existing  in such firms for a period of more than one year on a continuous basis, shall be eligible; d) specified securities pledged with any creditor.
(2)  Specified securities referred to in clauses (a) and (c) of sub-regulation (1) shall be eligible for the computation of promoters’ contribution, if such securities are acquired pursuant to a scheme which has been approved under the Companies Act, 2013 or any previous company law. PART IV: LOCK-IN AND RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFERRABILITY Lock-in of specified securities held by the promoters
238. The specified securities held by the promoters shall not be transferable (hereinafter referred to as ‘lock-in’) for the periods as stipulated hereunder: a)  minimum  promoters’  contribution  including  contribution  made  by  alternative  investment funds or foreign venture capital investors or scheduled commercial banks or public financial institutions or insurance companies registered with  Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India, as applicable, shall be locked-in for a period of three years from the date of commencement of commercial production or date of allotment in the initial public offer, whichever is later; b)   promoters’  holding  in  excess  of  minimum  promoters’  contribution  shall  be  locked-in  for  a period of one year from the date of allotment in the initial public offer commercial production" means the last date of the month in which commercial production of the project in respect of which the funds raised are proposed to be utilised as stated in the offer document, is expected to commence. Lock-in of specified securities held by persons other than the promoters 142
239. The entire pre-issue capital held by persons other than the promoters shall be locked-in for a period of one year from the date of allotment in the initial public offer: Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to: a) equity  shares  allotted  to  employees,  whether  currently  an  employee  or  not,  under  an employee stock option or employee stock purchase scheme of the issuer  prior to  the initial public offer, if the issuer has made full disclosures with respect to such options or scheme in accordance with Part A of Schedule VI; b) equity shares held by an employee stock option trust or transferred to the employees by an employee  stock  option  trust  pursuant  to  exercise  of  options  by  the  employees,  whether currently employees or not, in accordance with the employee stock option plan or employee stock purchase scheme. Provided that the equity shares allotted to the employees shall be subject to the provisions of lock-in  as  specified  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Share  Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014. c) equity shares held by a venture capital fund or alternative investment fund of category I  or Category II or a foreign venture capital investor: Provided that such equity shares shall be locked in for a period of at least one year from the date of purchase by the venture capital fund or alternative investment fund or foreign venture capital investor. to conversion of fully paid-up compulsorily convertible securities, the holding period of such convertible securities  as  well as that of  resultant  equity shares together shall be  considered for the purpose of calculation of one year period and convertible securities shall be deemed to be fully paid-up, if the entire consideration payable thereon has been paid and no further consideration is payable at the time of their conversion. Lock-in of specified securities lent to stabilising agent under the green shoe option
240.  The  lock-in  provisions  shall  not  apply  with  respect  to  the  specified  securities  lent  to stabilising agent for the purpose of green shoe option, during the period starting from the date of lending  of  such  specified  securities  and  ending  on  the  date  on  which  they  are  returned  to  the lender in terms of sub-regulation (5) or (6) of regulation 279: Provided that the specified securities shall be locked-in for the remaining period from the date on which they are returned to the lender. Inscription or recording of non-transferability 143
241.  The  certificates  of  specified  securities  which  are  subject  to  lock-in  shall  contain  the inscription “non- transferable” and specify the lock-in period and in case such specified securities are dematerialised, the issuer shall ensure that the lock-in is recorded by the depository. Pledge of locked-in specified securities
242.  Specified  securities  held  by  the  promoters  and  locked-in  may  be  pledged  as  a  collateral security for a loan granted by a scheduled commercial bank or a public financial institution or a systemically  important  non-banking  finance  company  or  a  housing  finance  company,  subject  to the following: a)  if the specified securities are locked-in  in  terms  of clause (a) of regulation  238, the loan has been granted to the issuer company or its subsidiary(ies) for the purpose of financing one or more  of  the  objects  of  the  issue  and  pledge  of  specified  securities  is  one  of  the  terms  of sanction of the loan; b)  if the specified securities are locked-in in terms of clause (b) of regulation 238 and the pledge of specified securities is one of the terms of sanction of the loan. Provided that such lock-in shall continue pursuant to the invocation of the pledge and such transferee  shall  not  be  eligible  to  transfer  the  specified  securities  till  the  lock-in  period stipulated in these regulations has expired. Transferability of locked-in specified securities
243. Subject to the provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of  shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011,  the  specified  securities  held  by  the  promoters  and locked-in  as  per  regulation  238  may  be  transferred  to  another  promoter  or  any  person  of  the promoter group or a new promoter or a person in control of the issuer and the specified securities held by persons other than the promoters and locked-in as per regulation 239 may be transferred to any other person (including promoter or promoter group) holding the specified securities which are locked-in along with the securities proposed to be transferred: Provided that the lock-in on such specified securities shall continue for the remaining period with the  transferee  and  such  transferee  shall  not  be  eligible  to  transfer  them  till  the  lock-in  period stipulated in these regulations has expired. PART V: APPOINTMENT OF LEAD MANAGERS, OTHER INTERMEDIARIES AND COMPLIANCE OFFICER 144
244.  (1)  The  issuer  shall  appoint  one  or  more  merchant  bankers,  which  are  registered  with  the Board, as lead manager(s) to the issue.
(2)  Where  the  issue  is  managed  by  more  than  one  lead  manager,  the  rights,  obligations  and responsibilities, relating inter alia to disclosures, allotment, refund and underwriting obligations, if any, of each lead manager shall be predetermined and disclosed in the draft offer document and the offer document as specified in Schedule I.
(3) At least one lead manager to the issue shall not be an associate (as defined under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992) of the issuer and if any of the lead manager is an associate of the issuer, it shall disclose  itself as an associate of the issuer and its role shall be limited to marketing of the issue.
(4) The issuer shall, in consultation with the lead manager(s), appoint other intermediaries which are registered with the Board after the lead manager(s) have independently assessed the capability of other intermediaries to carry out their obligations.
(5)  The  issuer  shall  enter  into  an  agreement  with  the  lead  manager(s)  in  the  format  specified  in Schedule II and enter into agreements with other intermediaries as required under the respective regulations applicable to the intermediary concerned: Provided that such agreements may include such other clauses as the issuer and the intermediary may deem fit without diminishing or limiting in any way the liabilities and obligations of the lead manager(s),  other  intermediaries  and  the  issuer  under  the  Act,  the  Companies  Act,  2013  or  the Companies Act, 1956 (to the extent applicable), the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the  Depositories  Act,  1996  and  the  rules  and  regulations  made  thereunder  or  any  statutory modification or statutory enactment thereof: Provided  further  that  in  case  of  ASBA  process,  the  issuer  shall  take  cognisance  of  the  deemed agreement of the issuer with self certified syndicate banks.
(6) The issuer shall, in case of an issue made through the book building process, appoint syndicate member(s)  and  in  the  case  of  any  other  issue,  appoint  bankers  to  issue,  at  centres  specified  in Schedule XII.
(7)  The  issuer  shall  appoint  a  registrar  to  the  issue,  registered  with  the  Board,  which  has connectivity with all the depositories: Provided that if issuer itself is a registrar,  it shall not appoint itself as registrar to the issue; Provided further that the lead manager shall not act as a registrar to the issue in which it is also handling the post-issue responsibilities.
(8)  The  issuer  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be  responsible  for  monitoring  the compliance of the securities laws and for redressal of investors’ grievances. 145 PART VI: DISCLOSURES IN AND FILING OF OFFER DOCUMENTS Disclosures in the draft offer document and offer document
245. (1) The offer document shall contain all material disclosures which are true and adequate so as to enable the applicants to take an informed investment decision.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the offer document shall contain: a) b) disclosures specified in the Companies Act, 2013; and disclosures specified in Part A of Schedule VI.
(3)  The  lead  manager(s)  shall  exercise  due  diligence  and  satisfy  themselves  about  all  aspects  of the  issue  including  the  veracity  and  adequacy  of  disclosure  in  the  draft  offer  document  and  the offer document.
(4) The lead manager(s) shall call upon the issuer, its promoters and its directors or in case of an offer for sale, also the selling shareholders, to fulfil their obligations as disclosed by them in the draft  offer  document  or  offer  document,  as  the  case  may  be,  and  as  required  in  terms  of  these regulations.
(5) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the information contained in the offer document and the particulars as per audited financial statements in the offer document are not more than six months old from the issue opening date. Filing of the offer document
246.  (1)  The  issuer  shall  file  a  copy  of  the  offer  document  with  the  Board  through  the  lead manager(s), immediately upon 78[filing] of the offer document  with the Registrar of Companies:
(2) The Board shall not issue any observation on the offer document.
(3)  The  lead  manager(s)  shall  submit  a  due-diligence  certificate  as  per  Form  A  of  Schedule  V including  additional  confirmations  as  provided  in  Form  G  of  Schedule  V  along  with  the  offer document to the Board.
(4) The offer document shall be displayed from the date of filing in terms of sub-regulation (1) on the websites of the Board, the lead manager(s) and the SME exchange(s).
(5) The draft offer document and the offer documents shall also be furnished to the Board in a soft copy. Offer document to be made available to public Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registration”. 146
247. (1) The issuer and the lead manager(s) shall ensure that the offer documents are hosted on the websites as required under these regulations and its contents are the same as the versions as filed with the Registrar of Companies, Board and the SME exchange(s).
(2) The lead manager(s)  and the SME exchange(s) shall provide copies of the  offer document to the public as and when requested and may charge a reasonable sum  for providing a copy of the same. PART VII - PRICING Face value of equity shares
248.    The  disclosure  about  the  face  value  of  equity  shares  shall  be  made  in  the  draft  offer document, offer document, advertisements and application forms, along with the price band or the issue price in identical font size. Pricing
249. (1) The issuer may determine the price of equity shares, and in case of convertible securities, the coupon rate and the conversion price, in consultation with the lead manager(s) or through the book building process, as the case may be.
(2)  The  issuer  shall  undertake  the  book  building  process  in  the  manner  specified  in  Schedule XIII. Price and price band
250.  (1)  The  issuer  may  mention  a  price  or  a  price  band in  the  offer  document  (in  case  of  a  fixed price issue) and a floor price or a price band in the red herring prospectus (in case of a book  built issue)  and  determine  the  price  at  a  later  date  before  79[filing]  the  prospectus  with  the  Registrar  of Companies: Provided that the prospectus 80[filed] with the Registrar of Companies shall contain only one price or the specific coupon rate, as the case may be.
(2) The cap on the price band, and the coupon rate in case of convertible debt instruments shall be less than or equal to one hundred and twenty per cent. of the floor price. Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”. Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registered”. 147
(3) The floor price or the final price shall not be less than the face value of the specified securities.
(4) Where the issuer opts not to make the disclosure of the floor price or price band in the red herring prospectus,  the  issuer  shall  announce  the  floor  price  or  the  price  band  at  least  two  working  days before  the  opening  of  the  issue  in  the  newspapers  in  which  the  pre-issue  advertisement  was released  or  together  with  the  pre-issue  advertisement  in  the  format  prescribed  under  Part  A  of Schedule X.
(5)  The  announcement  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (4)  shall  contain  relevant  financial  ratios computed for both upper and lower end of the price band and also a statement drawing attention of the investors to the section titled “basis of issue price” of the offer document.
(6) The announcement referred to in sub-regulation (4) and the relevant financial ratios referred to in sub-regulation (5) shall be disclosed on the websites of the SME exchange(s) and shall also be pre-filled in the application forms to be made available on the websites of the SME exchange(s). Differential pricing
251. (1) The issuer may offer its specified securities at different prices, subject to the following: a) retail  individual  investors  or  retail  individual  shareholders[or  employees  entitled  for reservation made under regulation 254 may be offered specified securities at a price not lower than by more than ten per cent. of the price at which net offer is made to other categories of applicants, excluding anchor investors. b) the  differential  pricing  and  the  price  at  which  net  offer  is  proposed  to  be  made  to  other categories of applicants shall be within the range such that the minimum application lot size shall remain uniform for all the applicants. c) in case of a book built issue, the price of the specified securities offered to the anchor investors shall not be lower than the price offered to other applicants.
(2) Discount, if any, shall be expressed in rupee terms in the offer document. PART VIII: ISSUANCE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURE Minimum offer to public
252. The minimum offer to the public shall be as per the provisions of clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 19 of Securities Contracts (Regulations) Rules, 1957. Allocation in the net offer 148
253.  81[(1)]The allocation in the net offer category shall be as follows: a)  not less than thirty five per cent. to retail individual investors; b)  not less than fifteen per cent. to non-institutional investors; c)  not  more  than  fifty  per  cent.  to  qualified  institutional  buyers,  five  per  cent.  of  which  shall  be allocated to mutual funds: Provided that the unsubscribed portion in either of the categories specified in clauses (a) or (b) may be allocated to applicants in any other category: Provided  further  that  in  addition  to  five  per  cent.  allocation  available  in  terms  of  clause  (c), mutual funds shall be eligible for allocation under the balance available for qualified institutional buyers. 82[***]
83[(2) In  an  issue  made  other  than  through  the  book  building  process,  the  allocation  in  the net  offer category shall be made as follows: (a)  minimum fifty per cent. to retail individual investors; and (b)  remaining to: (i)   individual applicants other than retail individual investors; and (ii)  other    investors    including    corporate    bodies    or    institutions,      irrespective    of    the number of specified securities applied for; Provided that the unsubscribed portion in either of the categories specified in clauses (a) or (b) may be allocated to applicants in the other category. entitled  to  more  than  fifty  per  cent.  of  the  issue  size  on  a  proportionate  basis,  the  retail individual investors shall be allocated that higher percentage.] 81  Re-numbered  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w-e-f- 31.12.2018. (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w-e-f- 31.12.2018. Prior to its omission,- proportionate basis, the retail individual investors shall be allocated that higher percentage.” (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w-e-f- 31.12.2018. 149 Reservation on a competitive basis
254.  (1)  The  issuer  may  make  reservations  on  a  competitive  basis  out  of  the  issue  size  excluding promoters’ contribution in favour of the following categories of persons: a) b) employees; shareholders  (other  than  promoters  and  promoter  group)  of    listed  subsidiaries  or  listed promoter companies Provided  that  the  issuer  shall  not  make  any  reservation  for  the  lead  manager(s),  registrar, syndicate member(s), their promoters, directors and employees and for the group or associate companies (as defined under the Companies Act, 2013) of the lead manager(s), registrar, and syndicate member(s) and their promoters, directors and employees.
(2) The reservations on a competitive basis shall be subject to following conditions: a) the  aggregate  of  reservations  for  employees  shall not  exceed  five  per  cent.  of  the  post-issue capital of the issuer and the value of allotment to any employee shall not exceed two lakhs rupees: Provided  that  in  the  event  of  under-subscription  in  the  employee  reservation  portion,  the unsubscribed portion may be allotted on a proportionate basis, for  a value in excess of two lakhs rupees, subject to the total allotment to an employee not exceeding five lakhs rupees. reservation for shareholders shall not exceed ten per cent. of the issue size; no  further  application  for  subscription  in  the  net  offer  can  be  made  by  persons  (except  an employee and retail individual shareholder)  in favour of whom reservation on a competitive b) c) basis is made; d) any  unsubscribed  portion  in  any  reserved  category  may  be  added  to  any  other  reserved category(ies)  and  the  unsubscribed  portion, if  any,  after  such  inter-se  adjustments  among  the reserved categories shall be added to the net offer category; e) in  case  of  under-subscription  in  the  net  offer  category,  spill-over  to  the  extent  of  under- subscription shall be permitted from the reserved category to the net public offer.
(3)  An  applicant  in  any  reserved  category  may  make  an  application  for  any  number  of  specified securities but not exceeding the reserved portion for that category. Abridged prospectus
255. (1) The abridged prospectus shall contain the disclosures as specified in Part E of Schedule VIII and shall not contain any matter extraneous to the contents of the offer document.
(2) Every  application  form  distributed  by  the  issuer  or  any  other  person  in  relation  to  an  issue shall be accompanied by a copy of the abridged prospectus. 150 ASBA
256.  The  issuer  shall  accept  bids  using  only  the  ASBA  facility  in  the  manner  specified  by  the Board. Availability of issue material
257. The lead manager(s) shall ensure availability of the offer document and other issue material including  application  forms  to  stock  exchanges,  syndicate  members,  registrar  to  issue,  registrar and  share  transfer  agents,  depository  participants,  stock  brokers,  underwriters,  bankers  to  the issue, investors’ associations and self certified syndicate banks before the opening of the issue. Prohibition on payment of incentives
258.  Any  person  connected  with  the  distribution  of  the  issue,  shall  not  offer  any  incentive, whether direct or indirect, in any manner, whether in cash or kind or services or otherwise to any person  for  making  an  application  in  the  initial  public  offer,  except  for  fees  or  commission  for services rendered in relation to the issue. Security deposit
259. (1) The issuer shall, before the opening of subscription list, deposit with the designated stock exchange,  an  amount  calculated  at  the  rate  of  one  per  cent.  of  the  issue  size  available  for subscription to the public in the manner specified by Board and/or stock exchange(s).
(2)  The  amount  specified  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  refundable  or  forfeitable  in  the  manner specified by the Board. Underwriting
260. (1) The initial public offer shall be underwritten for hundred per cent of the offer and shall not be restricted upto the minimum subscription level.
(2) The  lead manager(s) shall underwrite at  least fifteen per  cent.  of the issue size on their own account(s).
(3) The issuer, in consultation with lead manager(s), may appoint underwriters in accordance with Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Underwriters)  Regulations,  1993  and  the  lead manager(s)  may  enter  into  an  agreement  with  the  nominated  investors  indicating  therein  the number of specified securities which they agree  to  subscribe at  the issue price in  case of under- subscription.
(4) The lead manager(s) shall file an undertaking to the Board that the issue has been hundred per cent.  underwritten along with  the list  of underwriters, nominated investors and sub-underwriters 151 indicating the extent of underwriting or subscription commitment made by each of them, one day before the opening of issue.
(5)  If  any  of  the  underwriters  fail  to  fulfill  their  underwriting  obligations  or  the  nominated investors  fail  to  subscribe  to  the  unsubscribed  portion,  the  lead  manager(s)  shall  fulfill  the underwriting obligations.
(6)  The  underwriters/  sub-underwriters,  other  than  the  lead  manager(s)  and  the  nominated investors,  who  have  entered  into  an  agreement  for  subscribing  to  the  issue  in  case  of  under- subscription,  shall  not  subscribe  to  the  issue  made  under  this  Chapter  in  any  manner  except  for fulfilling  their  obligations  under  their  respective  agreements  with  the  lead  manager(s)  in  this regard.
(7)  All  underwriting  and  subscription  arrangements  made  by  the  lead  manager(s)  shall  be disclosed in the offer document. Market making
261. (1) The lead manager(s) shall ensure compulsory market making through the stock brokers of the  SME  exchange(s)  appointed  by  the  issuer,  in  the  manner  specified  by  the  Board  for  a minimum period of three years from the date of listing of the specified securities or from the date of migration from the Main Board in terms of regulation 276.
(2)  The  market  maker  or  issuer,  in  consultation  with  the  lead  manager(s)  may  enter  into agreements  with  the  nominated  investors  for  receiving  or  delivering  the  specified  securities  in market making, subject to the prior approval of the SME exchange.
(3) The issuer shall disclose the details of the market making arrangement in the offer document.
(4)  The  specified  securities  being  bought  or  sold  in  the  process  of  market  making  may  be transferred to or from the nominated investors with whom the lead manager(s) and the issuer have entered into an agreement for market making: Provided  that  the  inventory  of  the  market  maker,  as  on  the  date  of  allotment  of  the  specified securities, shall be at least five per cent. of the specified securities proposed to be listed on SME exchange.
(5) The market maker shall buy the entire shareholding of a shareholder of the issuer in one lot, where the value of such shareholding is less than the minimum contract size allowed for trading on the SME exchange: Provided that market maker shall not sell in lots less than the minimum contract size allowed for trading on the SME exchange. 152
(6)  The  market  maker  shall  not  buy  the  shares  from  the  promoters  or  persons  belonging  to  the promoter group of the issuer or any person who has acquired shares from such promoter or person belonging to the promoter group during the compulsory market making period.
(7)  The  promoters’  holding  shall  not  be  eligible  for  offering  to  the  market  maker  during  the compulsory market making period: Provided that the promoters’ holding which is not locked-in as per these regulations can be traded with prior permission of the SME exchange, in the manner specified by the Board.
(8) The lead manager(s) may be represented on the board of directors of the issuer subject to the agreement  between  the  issuer  and  the  lead  manager(s)  who  have  the  responsibility  of  market making. Monitoring agency
262. (1) If the issue size, excluding the size of offer for sale by selling shareholders, exceeds one hundred crore rupees, the issuer shall make arrangements for the use of proceeds of the issue to be monitored by a public financial institution or by one of the scheduled commercial banks named in the offer document as bankers of the issuer: Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to an issue of specified securities made by a bank or public financial institution or an insurance company.
(2) The monitoring agency shall submit its report to the issuer in the format specified in Schedule XI on a quarterly basis, till at least ninety five per cent. of the proceeds of the issue, excluding the proceeds raised for general corporate purposes, have been utilised.
(3) The board of directors and the management of the issuer shall provide their comments on the findings of the monitoring agency as specified in Schedule XI.
(4) The issuer shall, within forty five days from the end of each quarter, publicly disseminate the report  of  the  monitoring  agency  by  uploading  the  same  on  its  website  as  well  as  submitting  the same to the stock exchange(s) on which its equity shares are listed. Public communications, publicity materials, advertisements and research reports
263.  All  public  communications,  publicity  materials,  advertisements  and  research  reports  shall comply with provisions of Schedule IX. Issue-related advertisements 153
264. (1) Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013,  the issuer shall, after  84[filing] the prospectus  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies,  make  a  pre-issue  advertisement  in  one  English national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation,  Hindi  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide circulation  and  one  regional  language  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  at  the  place  where  the registered office of the issuer is situated.
(2) The pre-issue advertisement shall be in the format and shall contain the disclosures specified in Part A of Schedule X. Provided  that  the  disclosures  in  relation  to  price  band  or  floor  price  and  financial  ratios  contained therein shall only be applicable where the issuer opts to announce the price band or floor price along with the pre-issue advertisement pursuant to sub-regulation (4) of regulation 250.
(3) The issuer may issue advertisements for issue opening and issue closing advertisements, which shall be in the formats specified in Parts B and C of Schedule X.
(4) During the period the issue is open for subscription, no advertisement shall be released giving an impression that the issue has been fully subscribed or oversubscribed or indicating investors’ response to the issue.
(5)  An announcement regarding closure of the issue shall be made only after the lead manager(s) is satisfied  that  at  least  ninety  per  cent.  of  the  offer  has  been  subscribed  and  a  certificate  has  been obtained to that effect from the registrar to the issue: Provided that such an announcement shall not be made before the date on which the issue is to be closed except for issue closing advertisement made in the format prescribed in these regulations. Opening of the issue
265. The issue shall be opened after at least three working days from the date of 85[filing] the offer document with the Registrar of Companies. Period of subscription
266. (1) Except as otherwise provided in these regulations, a public issue shall be kept open for at least three working days and not more than ten working days. Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”. Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”. 154
(2) In case of a revision in the price band, the issuer shall extend the bidding (issue) period disclosed in the red herring prospectus, for a minimum period of three working days, subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (1).
(3) In case of force  majeure, banking strike or similar circumstances, the issuer may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend the bidding (issue) period disclosed in the red herring prospectus (in case  of  a  book  built  issue)  or the issue  period  disclosed  in  the  prospectus (in  case  of  a  fixed  price issue), for a minimum period of three working days, subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (1). Application and minimum application value
267. (1) A person shall not make an application in the net offer category for a number of specified securities that exceeds the total number of specified securities offered to the public. Provided that the maximum application by non-institutional investors shall not exceed total number of specified securities offered in the issue less total number of specified securities offered in the issue to qualified institutional buyers.
(2) The minimum application size shall be one lakh rupees per application.
(3)  The  issuer  shall  invite  applications  in  multiples  of  the  minimum  application  amount,  an illustration whereof is given in Part B of Schedule XIV.
(4) The minimum sum payable on application per specified security shall at least be twenty five per cent. of the issue price: Provided  that  in  case  of  an  offer  for  sale,  the  full  issue  price  for  each  specified  security  shall  be payable on application. reference to the issue price of the specified securities and not with reference to the amount payable on application. Allotment procedure and basis of allotment
268. (1) The issuer shall not make an allotment pursuant to a public issue if the number of allottees in an initial public offer is less than fifty.
(2) The issuer shall not make any allotment in excess of the specified securities offered through the offer  document  except  in  case  of  oversubscription  for  the  purpose  of  rounding  off  to  make allotment, in consultation with the designated stock exchange. Provided that in  case of  oversubscription, an  allotment  of not  more than ten per  cent.  of the net offer to public may be made for the purpose of making allotment in minimum lots. 155
(3)  The  allotment  of  specified  securities  to  applicants  other  than  retail  individual  investors  and anchor  investors  shall  be  on  proportionate  basis  within  the  specified  investor  categories  and  the number  of  securities  allotted  shall  be  rounded  off  to  the  nearest  integer,  subject  to  minimum allotment  being  equal  to  the  minimum  application  size  as  determined  and  disclosed  in  the  offer document: Provided that the value of specified securities allotted to any person, except in case of employees, in  pursuance  of  reservation  made  under  clause  (a)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  or  clause  (a)  of  sub- regulation (2) of regulation 254, shall not exceed two lakhs rupees.
(4)  The  authorised  employees  of  the  stock  exchange,  along  with  the  lead  manager(s)  and registrars  to  the  issue,  shall  ensure  that  the  basis  of  allotment  is  finalised  in  a  fair  and  proper manner in accordance with the allotment procedure as specified in Part A of Schedule XIV. Allotment, refund and payment of interest
269. (1) The registrars to the issue, in consultation with the issuer and lead manager(s) shall ensure that the specified securities are allotted and/or application monies are refunded or unblocked within such time as may be specified by the Board.
(2) The  lead  manager(s)  shall  ensure  that  the  allotment,  credit  of  dematerialised  securities, refunding or unlocking of application monies, as may be applicable, are done electronically.
(3) Where  the  specified  securities  are  not  allotted  and/or  application  monies  are  not  refunded  or unblocked within the period stipulated in sub-regulation (1) above, the issuer shall undertake to pay interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum  and within such time as disclosed in the offer document and the lead manager(s) shall ensure the same. Post-issue advertisements
270.  (1)  The  lead  manager(s)  shall  ensure  that  advertisement  giving  details  relating  to subscription,  basis  of  allotment,  number,  value  and  percentage  of  all  applications  including ASBA, number, value and percentage of successful allottees for all applications including ASBA, date  of  completion  of  dispatch  of  refund  orders,  as  applicable,  or  instructions  to  self  certified syndicate banks by the Registrar, date of credit of specified securities and date of filing of listing application, etc. is released within ten days from the date of completion of the various activities in at  least  one  English  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation,  one  Hindi  national  daily newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language daily newspaper with wide circulation at the place where registered office of the issuer is situated. 156
(2)  Details  specified  in  sub  regulation  (1)  shall  also  be  placed  on  the  website  of  the  stock exchanges. Post-issue responsibilities of the lead manager(s)
271.  (1)  The  responsibility  of  the  lead  manager(s)  shall  continue  until  completion  of  the  issue process and for any issue related matter thereafter.
(2) The lead manager(s) shall regularly monitor redressal of investor grievances arising from any issue related activities.
(3)  The  lead  manager(s)  shall  be  responsible  for  and  co-ordinate  with  the  registrars  to  the  issue and  with  various  intermediaries  at  regular  intervals  after  the  closure  of  the  issue  to  monitor  the flow  of  applications  from  syndicate  member(s)  or  collecting  bank  branches  and  or  self-certified syndicate  banks,  processing  of  the  applications  including  application  form  for  ASBA  and  other matters  till  the  basis  of  allotment  is  finalised,  credit  of  the  specified  securities  to  the  demat accounts  of  the  allottees  and  unblocking  of  ASBA  accounts/  despatch  of  refund  orders  are completed and securities are listed, as applicable.
(4) Any act of omission or commission on the part of any of the intermediaries noticed by the lead manager(s) shall be duly reported by them to the Board. (5)In case there is a devolvement on underwriters, the lead manager(s) shall ensure that the notice for devolvement containing the obligation of the underwriters is issued within a period of ten days from the date of closure of the issue.
(6) In the case of undersubscribed issues that are underwritten, the  lead manager(s) shall furnish information in respect of underwriters who have failed to meet their underwriting devolvement to the Board in the format specified in Schedule XVIII. Release of subscription money
272. (1) The lead manager(s) shall confirm to the bankers to the issue by way of copies of listing and  trading  approvals  that  all  formalities  in  connection  with  the  issue  have  been  completed  and that the banker is free to release the money to the issuer or release the money for refund in case of failure of the issue.
(2) In case the issuer fails to obtain listing or trading permission from the stock exchanges where the specified securities were to be listed, it shall refund through verifiable means the entire monies received within seven days of receipt of intimation from stock exchanges rejecting the application for listing of specified securities, and if any such money is not repaid within eight days after the 157 issuer becomes liable to repay it the issuer and every director of the company who is an officer in default shall, on and from the expiry of the eighth day, be jointly and severally liable to repay that money with interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum.
(3)  The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the monies received in respect of the issue are released to the issuer in compliance with the provisions of the Section 40 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013, as applicable. Post-issue reports
273. The lead manager(s) shall submit a final post-issue report as specified in Part A of Schedule XVII, along with a due diligence certificate as per the format specified in Form F of Schedule V, within seven days of the date of finalization of basis of allotment or within seven days of refund of money in case of failure of issue. Reporting of transactions of the promoters and promoter group
274. The issuer shall ensure that all transactions in securities by the promoters and promoter group between the date of filing of the draft offer document or offer document, as the case may be, and the date of closure of the issue shall be reported to the stock exchanges, within twenty four hours of such transactions. Listing
275.  Where  any  listed  issuer  issues  specified  securities  in  accordance  with  provisions  of  this Chapter,  it  shall  migrate  the  specified  securities  already  listed  on  any  recognised  stock exchange(s) to the SME exchange. Migration to the SME exchange
276. A listed issuer whose post-issue face value capital is less than twenty five crore rupees may migrate  its  specified  securities  to  SME  exchange  if  its  shareholders  approve  such  migration  by passing  a  special  resolution  through  postal  ballot  to  this  effect  and  if  such  issuer  fulfils  the eligibility criteria for listing laid down by the SME exchange: Provided  that  the  special  resolution  shall  be  acted  upon  if  and  only  if  the  votes  cast  by shareholders  other  than  promoters  in  favour  of  the  proposal  amount  to  at  least  two  times  the number of votes cast by shareholders other than promoter shareholders against the proposal. Migration to the main board 158
277.  An issuer, whose specified securities are listed on a SME Exchange and whose post-issue face value capital is more than ten crore rupees and up to twenty five crore rupees, may migrate its specified securities to the main board of the stock exchanges if its shareholders approve such a migration  by  passing  a  special  resolution  through  postal  ballot  to  this  effect  and  if  such  issuer fulfils the eligibility criteria for listing laid down by the Main Board: Provided  that  the  special  resolution  shall  be  acted  upon  if  and  only  if  the  votes  cast  by shareholders  other  than  promoters  in  favour  of  the  proposal  amount  to  at  least  two  times  the number of votes cast by shareholders other than promoter shareholders against the proposal. PART IX: MISCELLANEOUS Restriction on further capital issues
278. An issuer shall not make any further issue of specified securities in any manner whether by way of public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, qualified institutions placement, issue of bonus shares or  otherwise,  except  pursuant  to  an  employee  stock  option  scheme,  during  the  period  between  the date of filing the draft offer document and the listing of the specified securities offered through the offer document or refund of application monies unless full disclosures regarding the total number of specified securities or amount proposed to be raised from such further issue are made in such draft offer document or offer document, as the case may be. Price stabilisation through green shoe option
279. (1) The issuer may provide green shoe option for stabilising the post listing price of its specified securities, subject to the following: a) the issuer has been authorized, by a resolution passed in the general  meeting of shareholders approving the public issue, to allot specified securities to the stabilising agent, if required, on the expiry of the stabilisation period; b) the issuer has appointed a lead manager(s) appointed by the issuer as a stabilising agent, who shall be responsible for the price stabilisation process; c) prior to filing the draft offer document, the issuer and the stabilising agent have entered into an agreement, stating all the terms and conditions relating to the green shoe option including fees charged and expenses to be incurred by the stabilising agent for discharging its responsibilities; d) prior to filing the offer document, the stabilising agent has entered into an agreement with the promoters  or  pre-issue  shareholders  or  both  for  borrowing  specified  securities  from  them  in accordance with clause (g) of this sub-regulation, specifying therein the maximum number of specified securities that may be borrowed for the purpose of allotment or allocation of specified 159 securities  in  excess  of  the  issue  size  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “over-  allotment”),  which shall not be in excess of fifteen per cent. of the issue size; e) subject  to  clause  (d),  the  lead  manager(s),  in  consultation  with  the  stabilising  agent,  shall determine the amount of specified securities to be over-allotted in the public issue; f) the  draft  offer  document  and  offer  document  shall  contain  all  material  disclosures  about  the green shoe option specified in this regard in Part A of Schedule VI; g) in case of an initial public offer pre-issue shareholders and promoters and in case of a further public  offer  pre-issue  shareholders  holding  more  than  five  per  cent.  specified  securities  and promoters, may lend specified securities to the extent of the proposed over-allotment; h) the  specified  securities  borrowed  shall  be  in  dematerialised  form  and  allocation  of  these securities shall be made pro-rata to all successful applicants.
(2)  For  the  purpose  of  stabilisation  of  post-listing  price  of  the  specified  securities,  the  stabilising agent shall determine the relevant aspects including the timing of buying such securities, quantity to be bought and the price at which such securities are to be bought from the market.
(3)  The stabilisation process shall be available for a period not exceeding thirty days from the date on which  trading  permission  is  given  by  the  stock  exchanges  in  respect  of  the  specified  securities allotted in the public issue.
(4)  The stabilising agent shall open a special account, distinct from the issue account, with a bank for crediting  the  monies  received  from  the  applicants against  the over-allotment  and  a special  account with a depository participant for crediting specified securities to be bought from the market during the stabilisation period out of the monies credited in the special bank account.
(5)  The  specified  securities  bought  from  the  market  and  credited  in  the  special  account  with  the depository  participant  shall  be  returned  to  the  promoters  or  pre-issue  shareholders  immediately,  in any case not later than two working days after the end of the stabilization period.
(6)  On expiry of the stabilisation period, if the stabilising agent has not been able to buy specified securities from the market to the extent of such securities over-allotted, the issuer shall allot specified securities  at  issue  price  in  dematerialised  form  to  the  extent  of  the  shortfall  to  the  special  account with  the  depository  participant,  within  five days  of  the  closure of  the  stabilisation  period  and  such specified  securities  shall  be  returned  to  the  promoters  or  pre-issue  shareholders  by  the  stabilising agent  in  lieu  of  the  specified  securities  borrowed  from  them  and  the  account  with  the  depository participant shall be closed thereafter.
(7)  The  issuer  shall  make  a  listing  application  in  respect  of  the  further  specified  securities  allotted under  sub-regulation  (6),  to  all  the  stock  exchanges  where  the  specified  securities  allotted  in  the public issue are listed and the provisions of Chapter VII shall not be applicable to such allotment. 160
(8)  The stabilising agent shall remit the monies with respect to the specified securities allotted under sub-regulation (6) to the issuer from the special bank account.
(9)  Any monies left in the special bank account after remittance of monies to the issuer under sub- regulation (8) and deduction of expenses incurred by the stabilising agent for the stabilisation process shall be transferred to the Investor Protection and Education Fund established by the Board and the special bank account shall be closed soon thereafter.
(10) The stabilising agent shall submit a report to the stock exchange on a daily basis during the stabilisation period and a final report to the Board in the format specified in Schedule XV.
(11) The stabilising agent shall maintain a register for a period of at least three years from the date of the end of the stabilisation period and such register shall contain the following particulars: a)  The names of the promoters or pre-issue shareholders from whom the specified securities were borrowed and the number of specified securities borrowed from each of them; b)  The price, date and time in respect of each transaction effected in the course of the stabilisation process; and c)  The details of allotment made by the issuer on expiry of the stabilisation process. Alteration of rights of holders of specified securities
280. (1) The issuer shall not alter the terms (including the terms of issue) of specified securities which may adversely affect the interests of the holders of that specified securities, except with the consent  in  writing  of the holders of not  less  than three-fourths  of the specified securities of that class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a meeting of the holders of the specified securities of that class.
(2)  Where  the  post-issue  face  value  capital  of  an  issuer  listed  on  a  SME  exchange  is  likely  to increase beyond twenty five crore rupees by virtue of any further issue of capital by the issuer by way  of  rights  issue,  preferential  issue,  bonus  issue,  etc.  the  issuer  shall  migrate  its  specified securities listed on a SME exchange to the Main Board and seek listing of the specified securities proposed  to  be  issued  on  the  Main  Board  subject  to  the  fulfilment  of  the  eligibility  criteria  for listing of specified securities laid down by the Main Board: Provided that no further issue of capital by the issuer shall be made unless – a)  the  shareholders  of  the  issuer  have  approved  the  migration  by  passing  a  special  resolution through postal ballot wherein the votes cast by shareholders other than promoters in favour of the proposal amount to at least two times the number of votes cast by shareholders other than promoter shareholders against the proposal; b)  the issuer has obtained an in-principle approval  from the Main  Board for listing of its entire specified securities on it. 161 Further Issues
281.  An  issuer  listed  on  a  SME  exchange  making  a  further  issue  of  capital  by  way  of  a  rights issue,  or  further  public  offer  or  preferential  issue  or  bonus  issue  etc.  may  do  so  by  adhering  to applicable requirements mentioned in these regulations. CHAPTER X – 86[INNOVATORS GROWTH PLATFORM] PART I: APPLICABILITY
282.  (1)  The  provisions  of  this  Chapter  shall  apply  to  issuers  seeking  listing  of  their  specified securities  pursuant  to  an  initial  public  offer  or  for  only  trading  on  a  stock  exchange  of  their specified securities without making a public offer.
(2) The provisions of these regulations, in respect of the matters not specifically dealt or excluded under  this  Chapter,  shall  apply  mutatis  mutandis  to  any  listing  or  trading  of  specified  securities under this Chapter. Provided that the following shall not apply: (a)  sub-regulation (2) of regulation 7 on restrictions on the amount of general corporate purposes; and (b)  sub-regulation (1) and (2) of regulation 6 on eligibility requirements
(3)  The  institutional  trading  platform  shall  be  accessible  only  to  institutional  investors  and  non- institutional investors 87[*]. Eligibility
283.  88[(1)  An  issuer  which  is  intensive  in  the  use  of  technology,  information  technology, intellectual  property,  data  analytics,  bio-technology  or  nano-technology  to  provide  products, Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “INSTITUTIONAL TRADING PLATFORM”. Amendment)  Regulations,  2019,  w-e-f  05.04.2019.  Prior  to  its  omission,  it  read  as  “and  not  to  retail  individual investors”. Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as:
“(1) The following issuers shall be eligible for listing on the institutional trading platform: 162 services  or  business  platforms  with  substantial  value  addition  shall  be  eligible  for  listing  on  the innovators growth platform, provided that as on the date of filing of draft information document or draft offer document with the Board, as the case may be, twenty five per cent of the pre-issue capital of  the Issuer Company for at least a period of two years, should have been held by: I.  Qualified Institutional Buyers; II. Family trust with net-worth of more than five hundred crore rupees, as per the last audited financial statements; III.  Accredited Investors for the purpose of Innovators Growth Platform; IV. The following regulated entities: a.   [Foreign Portfolio Investor]89; b.  An entity meeting all the following criteria: i. It  is  a  pooled  investment  fund  with  minimum  assets  under  management  of  one hundred and fifty million USD; ii. It  is  registered with  a  financial sector regulator in  the jurisdiction of which it is  a resident; iii. It  is  resident  of  a  country  whose  securities  market  regulator  is  a  signatory  to  the International  Organization  of  Securities  Commission’s  Multilateral  Memorandum of  Understanding  (Appendix  A  Signatories)  or  a  signatory to  Bilateral Memorandum of Understanding with the Board; iv. It is not resident in a country identified in the public statement of Financial Action Task Force as: a)  a  jurisdiction  having  a  strategic  Anti-Money  Laundering  or  Combating  the Financing of Terrorism deficiencies to which counter measures apply; or b)  a  jurisdiction  that  has  not  made  sufficient  progress  in  addressing  the deficiencies  or  has  not  committed  to  an  action  plan  developed  with  the Financial Action Task Force to address the deficiencies. a)  an  issuer  which  is  intensive  in  the  use  of  technology,  information  technology,  intellectual  property,  data analytics,  bio-technology  or  nano-technology  to  provide  products,  services  or  business  platforms  with substantial  value  addition  and  at  least  twenty  five  per  cent  of  its  pre-issue  capital  is  held  by  qualified institutional  buyer(s)  as  on  the  date  of  filing  of  draft  information  document  or  draft  offer  document  with  the Board, as the case may be; or b)  any other issuer in which at least fifty per cent of the pre-issue capital is held by qualified institutional buyers as on the date of filing of draft information document or draft offer document with the Board, as the case may be.
(1)  No person, individually or collectively with persons acting in concert, shall hold twenty five per cent or more of the post-issue share capital in an entity specified in sub-regulation (1).” (a)  The following entities shall be eligible to be considered as accredited investors for the purpose of innovators growth platform: (i)  any individual with total gross income of fifty lakhs rupees annually and who has minimum liquid net worth of five crore rupees; or (ii)  any body corporate with net worth of twenty five crore rupees. (b) Not more than ten per cent of the pre-issue capital may be held by Accredited Investors. (c)  For the purpose of accreditation: The persons /corporate bodies who wish to get accreditation for the purpose of innovators growth platform, shall approach the stock exchanges or depositories and follow the procedures prescribed by the Board and / or such stock exchange or depository for the purpose of accreditation as an Accredited Investor, from time to time.]
90[(2)]  An  issuer  shall  be  eligible  for  listing  on  the  institutional  trading  platform  if  none  of  the promoters or directors of the issuer company is a fugitive economic offender. PART II: LISTING WITHOUT A PUBLIC ISSUE Listing without a public issue
284. (1) An issuer seeking listing of its specified securities without making a public offer, shall file  a  draft  information  document  along  with  the  necessary  documents  with  the  Board  in accordance  with  these  regulations  along  with  the  fee  as  specified  in  Schedule  III  of  these regulations.
(2)  The  draft  information  document  shall  contain  disclosures  as  specified  for  the  draft  offer documents in these regulations as specified in Part A of Schedule VI.
(3) The regulations relating to the following as stated under the Chapter of Initial Public Offer on Main Board shall not be applicable: a)  allotment; b)  issue opening  or closing; c)  advertisements; d)  underwriting; e)  sub-regulation (2) of regulation 5; f)  pricing; g)  dispatch of issue material; and 90  Renumbered  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its renumbering, it read as sub-regulation (3). 164 h)  other such provisions related to offer of specified securities to the public.
(4)  The  issuer  shall  obtain  an  in-principle  approval  from  the  stock  exchanges  on  which  it proposes to get its specified securities listed.
(5) The issuer shall list its  specified securities on the recognised stock exchange(s within thirty days: a)  from the date of issuance of observations by the Board; or b)  from  the  expiry  of  the  period  stipulated  in  sub-regulation  (4)  of  regulation  25,  if  the  Board has not issued any such observations.
(6) The issuer which has received an in-principle approval from the stock exchange for listing of its specified securities, shall be deemed to have been waived by the Board under sub-rule (7) of rule 19 from the requirement of minimum offer to the public as per the provisions  of clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 19 of Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 for the limited purpose of listing on the 91[innovators growth platform].
(7) Provisions relating to minimum public shareholding shall not be applicable.
(8) The draft and final information document shall be approved by the board of directors of the issuer  and  shall  be  signed  by  all  directors,  the  Chief  Executive  Officer,  i.e.,  the  Managing Director  or  Manager  within  the  meaning  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  and  the  Chief  Financial Officer, i.e., the Whole-time Finance Director or any other person heading the finance function and discharging that function.
(9)  The  signatories  shall  also  certify  that  all  disclosures  made  in  the  information  document  are true and correct.
(10)  In case of mis-statement in  the information document or any omission therein,  any  person who  has  authorized  the  issue  of  information  document  shall  be  liable  in  accordance  with  the provisions of the Act and regulations made thereunder. be construed as ‘pre-listing’ and ‘post-listing’, respectively. PART III: LISTING PURSUANT TO AN INITIAL PUBLIC OFFER Disclosures in draft offer document and offer document Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “institutional trading platform”. 165
285. (1) An issuer seeking to issue and list its specified securities shall file a draft offer document along with necessary documents with the Board in accordance with these regulations along with the fees as specified in Schedule III of these regulations.
(2) The draft offer document shall disclose the broad objects of the issue.
(3)  The  basis  of  issue  price  shall  include  disclosures,  except  projections,  as  deemed  fit  by  the issuer  in  order  to  enable  the  investors  to  take  informed  decisions  and  the  disclosures  shall suitably contain the basis of valuation. 92[Minimum public shareholding norms and minimum offer size
285A.(1)  The  issuer  shall  be  in  compliance  with  minimum  public  shareholding  requirements specified in the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957.
(2) The minimum offer size shall be ten crore rupees.”] Minimum application size
286. The minimum application size shall be 93[two lakh rupees and in multiples thereof]. Allocation and allotment
287. (1) The number of allottees in the initial public offer shall at least be 94[fifty].
95[(2) The allotment to institutional investors as well as non-institutional investors shall be on a proportionate basis.] 96[*]
97[(3)]  Any  under-subscription  in  the  non-institutional  investor  category  shall  be  available  for subscription under the institutional investors’ category. Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “ten lakh rupees”. Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “two hundred”. Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as: “(2)The allocation in the net offer to public category shall be as follows: (a)  seventy-five per cent to institutional investors: Provided that there shall be no separate allocation for anchor investors; (b)  twenty-five per cent to non-institutional investors” Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its omission, it read as:
“(3) The allotment to institutional investors may be on a discretionary or a proportionate basis whereas the allotment to non-institutional investors shall be on a proportionate basis.
(4)  The  mode  of  allotment  to  institutional  investors,  i.e.,  whether  discretionary  or  proportionate,  shall  be  disclosed prior to or at the time of filing of the offer document.
(5) In case of discretionary allotment to institutional investors, no institutional investor shall be allotted more than ten per cent. of the issue size.” 166 PART IV: GENERAL CONDITIONS Lock-in
288.  (1)  The  entire  pre-issue  capital  of  the  shareholders  shall  be  locked-in  for  a  period  of  six months from the date of allotment in case of listing pursuant to a public issue or date of listing in case of listing without a public issue: Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to: a)  equity  shares  allotted  to  employees,  whether  currently  an  employee  or  not,  under  an employee stock option or employee stock purchase scheme of the issuer prior to the initial public offer, if the issuer has made full disclosures with respect to such options or scheme in accordance with Part A of Schedule VI; b)  equity shares held by an employee stock option trust or transferred to the employees by an employee  stock  option  trust  pursuant  to  exercise  of  options  by  the  employees,  whether currently  employees  or  not,  in  accordance  with  the  employee  stock  option  plan  or employee stock purchase scheme. Provided that the equity shares allotted to the employees shall be subject to the provisions of  lock-in  as  specified  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Share  Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014. c)  equity shares held by a venture capital fund or alternative investment fund of Category I or a foreign venture capital investor: Provided that such equity shares shall be locked-in for a period of at least one year from the date of purchase by the venture capital fund or alternative investment fund or foreign venture capital investor. d)   equity  shares  held  by  persons  other  than  the  promoters,  continuously  for  a  period  of  at least one year prior to the date of listing in case of listing without a public issue: resulted  pursuant  to  conversion  of  fully  paid-up  compulsorily  convertible  securities,  the holding  period  of  such  convertible  securities  as  well  as  that  of  resultant  equity  shares together  shall  be  considered  for  the  purpose  of  calculation  of  one  year  period  and  the convertible  securities  shall  be  deemed  to  be  fully  paid-up,  if  the  entire  consideration payable thereon has been paid at the time of their conversion. 97  Renumbered  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its renumbering, it read as sub-regulation “(6)”. 167
(2)  The  specified  securities  held  by  the  promoters  and  locked-in  may  be  pledged  with  any scheduled commercial bank or public financial institution or systemically important non-banking finance  company  as  a  collateral  security  for  a  loan  granted  by  such  bank  or  institution  or systemically important non-banking finance company if the pledge of specified securities is one of the terms of sanction of the loan.
(3) The specified securities that are locked-in may be transferable in accordance with regulation 288 of these regulations.
(4) All specified securities allotted on a discretionary basis shall be locked-in in accordance with the requirements for lock-in for the anchor investors on the main board of the stock exchange, as specified under Part A of Schedule XIII. Trading lot
289. The minimum trading lot on the stock exchange shall be 98[two lakh rupees and in multiples thereof]. Exit of issuers whose securities are trading without making a public offer
290.  An  issuer  whose  specified  securities  are  traded  on  the  99[innovators  growth  platform] without making a public issue may exit from that platform, if a) its  shareholders  approve  such  an  exit  by  passing  a  special  resolution  through  postal  ballot where ninety per cent  of the total  votes and the  majority of non-promoter votes have been cast in favor of such proposal; and b) the recognised stock exchange where its shares are listed approves of such an exit. Withdrawal of approval by the stock exchange
291.  (1)  The  recognised  stock  exchange  may  delist  the  specified  securities  of  an  issuer  listed without  making  a  public  issue  upon  non-compliance  of  the  conditions  of  listing  and  in  the manner as specified by the stock exchange.
(2) No issuer promoted by the promoters and directors of an entity delisted under sub-regulation
(1),  shall  be  permitted  to  list  on  the  100[innovators  growth  platform]  for  a  period  of  five  years from the date of such delisting: Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “ten lakh rupees”. Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 05.04.2019. Prior to its substitution, it read as “institutional trading platform”. 168 Provided that the provisions of this regulation shall not apply to another issuer promoted by any of the independent directors of such a delisted issuer. 101[PART V: MIGRATION TO THE MAIN BOARD Granting  companies  listed  on  the  Innovators  Growth  Platform  pursuant  to  an  initial public offer, an option to trade under the regular category of the main board of the stock exchange
292. (1) A company shall be eligible to trade under the regular category of the main board of the stock exchanges, subject to fulfillment of the conditions of the stock exchanges, if any, and the fulfillment of the following conditions: (a) It has listed its specified securities for a minimum period of one year on the Innovators Growth Platform of a recognised stock exchange; (b) It  has minimum  of two  hundred shareholders, at the time of making the  application for trading under the regular category; (c)  The  company,  any  of  its  promoters,  promoter  group  or  directors  are  not  debarred  from accessing the capital market by the Board; (d)  None of the promoters or directors of the company is a promoter or director of any other company which is debarred from accessing the capital market by the Board; (e)  The company or any of its promoters or directors is not a wilful defaulter; and (f)  None of the promoters or directors of the Company is a fugitive economic offender. entities mentioned  therein,  who  were  debarred  in  the  past  by  the  Board  and  the  period of    debarment    is  over  as  on  the  date  of  application  for  migration  of  trading  to  the  regular category of the main board of the stock exchange. Eligibility requirements
(2)    A  company  shall  be  eligible  to  trade  under  the  regular  category  of  the  main  board  of  the stock exchanges, only if: (a)  it  has  net  tangible  assets  of  at  least  three  crore  rupees,  calculated  on  a  consolidated basis,  in  each  of  the  preceding  three  full  years  (of  twelve  months  each),  of which not more than fifty per cent. are held in monetary assets; (b) it has  an  average  operating  profit  of  at  least  fifteen  crore  rupees,  calculated  on  a consolidated  basis,  during  the  preceding  three  years  (of  twelve  months  each),  with operating profit in each of these preceding three years; (c)  it has a net  worth  of at  least  one crore rupees in  each of the preceding three full  years (of twelve months each), calculated on a consolidated basis; and (d) in case it  has  changed  its  name  within  the  last  one  year,  at  least  fifty  per  cent  of the  revenue, calculated  on  a  consolidated  basis,  for  the  preceding  one  full  year  has been earned by it from the activity indicated by its new name.
(3)  A  company  not  satisfying  the  conditions  laid  down  under  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation 292, shall, at the time of applying to trade under the regular category, have seventy five per cent. of its capital, as on date of application for migration, held by Qualified Institutional Buyers. Minimum promoters’ contribution
(4) The promoters of the company shall hold at least twenty per cent of the total capital: Provided that in  case  the  total capital held by  the  promoters  is  less  than  twenty  per  cent, alternative  investment  funds  or  foreign  venture  capital  investors  or  scheduled  commercial banks  or    public    financial    institutions    or    insurance    companies    registered    with    Insurance Regulatory    and  Development  Authority  of  India  may  contribute  to  meet  the  shortfall  in minimum  contribution  as  specified,  subject  to  a  maximum  of  ten  per  cent  of  the  total  capital without being identified as promoter(s): Provided  further  that  the  requirement  of  minimum  promoters  ’contribution  shall  not  apply  in case a company does not have any identifiable promoter. Lock-in period
(5)  (a)  The  minimum  promoters’  contribution  including  contribution  made  by  alternative investment  funds  or  foreign  venture  capital  investors  or  scheduled  commercial  banks or public    financial    institutions    or    insurance    companies    registered    with    the  Insurance Regulatory  and Development Authority of India,  shall be locked in for a period of three years from the date on which  trading approval in regular category of main board is  granted, and any excess over and above the 20% of promoter’s holding shall be locked-in for a period of one year. 170 (b)  Wherever  the  contributions  made  by  such  entities  had  been  locked-in  for  a  period  of  six months at the time of listing of shares of the Company on the Innovators Growth Platform, and the  company  is  desirous  of  migrating  to  the  regular  trade  category  of  the  main  board  after completion  of  listing  on  the  Innovators  Growth  Platform  for  one  year,  such  period  shall  be deducted  from  the  stipulated  lock-in  requirement  of  three  years  and  one  year,  as  may  be applicable. (c)  The  condition  of  lock  in  would  not  apply  to  a  Company  which  has  been  listed  on  the Innovators Growth Platform for a minimum period of three years or more.] CHAPTER XI - BONUS ISSUE Conditions for a bonus issue
293.  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  or  any  other  applicable  law,  a  listed issuer shall be eligible to issue bonus shares to its members if: a) it  is  authorised  by  its  articles  of  association  for  issue  of  bonus  shares,  capitalisation  of reserves, etc.: Provided that if there is no such provision in the articles of association, the issuer shall pass a resolution at its general body meeting making provisions in the articles of associations for capitalisation of reserve; b) it  has  not  defaulted  in  payment  of  interest  or  principal  in  respect  of  fixed  deposits  or  debt securities issued by it; c) it  has  not  defaulted  in  respect  of  the  payment  of  statutory  dues  of  the  employees  such  as contribution to provident fund, gratuity and bonus; d) any outstanding partly paid shares on the date of the allotment of the bonus shares, are made fully paid-up; any of its promoters or directors is not a fugitive economic offender. e) Restrictions on a bonus issue
294. (1) An issuer shall make a bonus issue of equity shares only if it has made reservation of equity shares  of  the  same  class  in  favour  of  the  holders  of  outstanding  compulsorily  convertible  debt instruments if any, in proportion to the convertible part thereof. (2)The equity shares so reserved for the holders of fully or partly  compulsorily  convertible debt instruments,  shall be issued to the holder of such convertible debt instruments or warrants at the time  of  conversion  of  such  convertible  debt  instruments,  optionally  convertible  instruments, 171 warrants,  as  the  case  may  be,  on  the  same  terms  or  same  proportion  at  which  the  bonus  shares were issued.
(3) A bonus issue shall be made only out of free reserves, securities premium account or capital redemption reserve account and  built out of the genuine profits or securities premium collected in cash and reserves created by revaluation of fixed assets shall not be capitalised for this purpose.
(4) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-regulation (3), bonus shares shall not be issued in lieu of dividends.
102[(5) If an issuer has issued SR equity shares to its promoters or founders, any bonus issue on the SR equity shares shall carry the same ratio of voting rights compared to ordinary shares and the SR  equity  shares  issued  in  a  bonus  issue  shall  also  be  converted  to  equity  shares  having  voting rights same as that of ordinary equity shares along with existing SR equity shares.] Completion of a bonus issue
295.  (1)  An  issuer,  announcing  a  bonus  issue  after  approval  by  its  board  of  directors  and  not requiring  shareholders’  approval  for  capitalisation  of  profits  or  reserves  for  making  the  bonus issue, shall implement the bonus issue within fifteen days from the date of approval of the issue by its board of directors: Provided  that  where  the  issuer  is  required  to  seek  shareholders’  approval  for  capitalisation  of profits or reserves for making the bonus issue, the bonus issue shall be implemented within two months from the date of the meeting of its board of directors wherein the decision to announce the bonus issue was taken subject to shareholders’ approval. commencement of trading shall be considered.
(2) A bonus issue, once announced, shall not be withdrawn. 103[CHAPTER XI-A POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
295A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new  products, processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  in  live  environment  of  regulatory  sandbox  in  the securities markets.
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be deployed on a limited  set  of  eligible  customers  for  a  specified  period  of  time,  for  furthering  innovation  in  the securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board.] Directions by the Board CHAPTER XII - MISCELLANEOUS
296.  Without prejudice to the power under sections 11, 11A, 11B, 11D, sub-section (3) of section 12,  Chapter  VIA  and  section  24  of  the  Act,  the  Board  may  either  suo  motu  or  on  receipt  of information  or  on  completion  or  pendency  of  any  inspection,  inquiry  or  investigation,  in  the interests  of  investors  or  the  securities  market,  issue  such  directions  or  orders  as  it  deems  fit including any or all of the following: a) b) c) directing the persons concerned not to access the securities market for a specified period; directing the person concerned to sell or divest the securities; any other direction which Board may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of the case: Provided  that  the  Board  shall,  either  before  or  after  issuing  such  direction  or  order,  give  a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the person concerned: Provided further that if any interim direction or order is required to be issued, the Board may give post-decisional hearing to the person concerned. Liability for contravention of the Act, rules or the regulations
297.  (1)  The  listed  issuer  or  any  other  person  thereof  who  contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of these  regulations,  shall,  in  addition  to  the  liability  for  action  in  terms  of  the  securities  laws,  be liable for the following actions by the respective stock exchange(s), in the manner specified by the Board: (a)  imposition of fines; (b) suspension of trading; (c)  freezing  of  promoter/promoter  group  holding  of  designated  securities,  as  may  be applicable in coordination with depositories; 173 (d) any other action as may be specified by the Board from time to time.
(2) The manner of revocation of actions specified in clauses (b) and (c) of sub-regulation (1), shall be in the manner specified by the Board. Failure to pay fine
298. If the listed issuer fails to pay any fine imposed upon it by the recognised stock exchange(s), within the period as specified from time to time, the stock exchange may initiate such other action in accordance with the bye-laws of such Stock Exchange after giving a notice in writing. Power to remove difficulty
299.  In order to  remove any difficulties in  the application or interpretation  of these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications through guidance notes or circulars after recording reasons in writing. Power to relax strict enforcement of the regulations
300.  (1)    The  Board  may,  in  the  interest  of  investors  or  for  the  development  of  the  securities market,  relax  the  strict  enforcement  of  any  requirement  of  these  regulations,  if  the  Board  is satisfied that: a) b) c) the requirement is procedural in nature; or any disclosure requirement is not relevant for a particular class of industry or issuer; or the non-compliance was caused due to factors beyond the control of the issuer.
(2) For seeking relaxation under sub-regulation (1), an application, giving details and the grounds on which such relaxation has been sought, shall be filed with the Board.
(3) The application referred to under sub-regulation (2) shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee of rupees one lakh payable by  way  of  direct  credit  in  the  bank  account  through NEFT/ RTGS/  IMPS  or  any  other  mode  allowed  by  RBI  or  by  way  of  a  demand  draft  in  favour  of  the Board payable in Mumbai. Repeal and Savings
301. (1) On and from the commencement of these regulations, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements), Regulations 2009 shall stand rescinded.
3. (1) A company may implement schemes either directly or by setting up an irrevocable trust(s): Provided  that  if  the  scheme  is  to  be  implemented  through  a  trust  the  same  has  to  be  decided upfront at the time of taking approval of the shareholders for setting up the schemes: Provided  further  that  if  the  scheme  involves  secondary  acquisition  or  gift  or  both,  then  it  is mandatory for the company to implement such scheme(s) through a trust(s).
(2) A company may implement  several  schemes as permitted under these regulations through a single trust: 8 Provided  that  such  single  trust  shall  keep  and  maintain  proper  books  of  account,  records  and documents, for each such scheme so as to explain its transactions and to disclose at any point of time the financial position of each scheme and in particular give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of each scheme.
(3) SEBI may specify the minimum provisions to be included in the trust deed  under which the trust is formed, and such trust deed and any modifications thereto shall be mandatorily filed with the stock exchange in India where the shares of the company are listed.
(4) A person shall not be appointed as a trustee, if he- i. is  a  director,  key  managerial  personnel  or  promoter  of  the  company  or  its  holding, subsidiary  or  associate  company  or  any  relative  of  such  director,  key  managerial personnel or promoter; or ii. beneficially holds ten percent or more of the paid-up share capital of the company. Provided  where  individuals  or  ‘one  person  companies’  as  defined  under  the  Companies  Act, 2013  are  appointed  as  trustees,  there  shall  be  a  minimum  of  two  such  trustees,  and  in  case  a corporate entity is appointed as a trustee, then it may be the sole trustee.
(5) The trustees of a trust, which is governed under these regulations, shall not vote in respect of the  shares  held  by  such  trust,  so  as  to  avoid  any  misuse  arising  out  of  exercising  such  voting rights.
(6) The trustee should ensure that appropriate approval from the shareholders has been obtained by the company in order to enable the trust to implement the scheme(s) and undertake secondary acquisition for the purposes of the scheme(s).
(7) The  trust  shall  not  deal  in  derivatives,  and  shall  undertake  only  delivery  based  transactions for the purposes of secondary acquisition as permitted by these regulations. 9
(8) Subject to the requirements of Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies (Share Capital and Debenture) Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, as may be applicable, the company may lend monies to the trust on appropriate terms and conditions to acquire the shares either through new issue or secondary acquisition, for the purposes of implementation of the scheme(s).
(9) For the purposes of disclosures to  the stock exchange, the shareholding of the trust shall be shown as ‘non-promoter and non-public’ shareholding. part  of the public shareholding which needs to  be maintained at  a minimum  of  twenty five per cent as prescribed under Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957.
(10)  Secondary  acquisition  in  a financial  year  by the  trust  shall  not  exceed  two  per  cent  of  the paid up equity capital as at the end of the previous financial year.
(11)  The  total  number  of  shares  under  secondary  acquisition  held  by  the  trust  shall  at  no  time exceed the below mentioned prescribed limits as a percentage of the paid up equity capital as at the end of the financial year immediately prior to the year in which the shareholder approval is obtained for such secondary acquisition: Sr. No.  Particulars Limit for the schemes enumerated in Part A, A Part B or Part C of Chapter III of these 5% regulations for the schemes enumerated in Part D, B or Part E of Chapter III of these 2% regulations C for all the schemes in aggregate 5% 10 expanded  capital  of  the  company  where  such  expansion  has  taken  place  on  account  of corporate action including issue of bonus shares, split or rights issue. shall be applicable for all such trusts and schemes taken together at the company level and not at the level of individual trust or scheme. the  trust  by  way  of  new  issue  or  gift  from  promoter  or  promoter  group  or  other shareholders. schemes  exceeds  the  number  of  shares  that  the  trust  may  acquire  through  secondary acquisition,  then  such  shortfall  of  shares  shall  be  made  up  by  the  company  through  new issue of shares to the trust in accordance with the provisions of new issue of shares under the applicable laws.
(12) The un-appropriated inventory of shares which are not backed by grants, acquired through secondary  acquisition  by  the  trust  under  Part  A,  Part  B  or  Part  C  of  Chapter  III  of  these regulations, shall be appropriated within a reasonable period which shall not extend beyond the end of the subsequent financial year: Provided that if  such  trust(s)  existing  as  on the  date  of  notification  of  these  regulations  are  not able to appropriate the un-appropriated inventory within one year of such notification, the same shall be disclosed to the stock exchange(s) at the end of such period and then the same shall be sold on the recognized stock exchange(s) where shares of the company are listed, within a period of five years from the date of notification of these regulations.
(13)  The trust shall be required to hold the shares acquired through secondary acquisition for a minimum  period  of  six  months  except  where  they  are  required  to  be  transferred  in  the 11 circumstances enumerated in  clause (b) of sub-regulation  (14) of this regulation2[, whether off- market or on the platform of stock exchange.]
(14)  The  trust  shall  be  permitted  to  undertake  off-market  transfer  of  shares  only  under  the following circumstances: (a). transfer to the employees pursuant to scheme(s); (b). when  participating  in  open  offer  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011,  or  when participating in buy-back, delisting or any other exit offered by the company generally to its shareholders.
(15) The  trust  shall  not  become  a  mechanism  for  trading  in  shares  and  hence  shall  not  sell  the shares in secondary market except under the following circumstances: (a). cashless  exercise  of  options  under  the  scheme  covered  by  Part  A  of  Chapter  III  of these regulations; (b). on vesting or exercise, as the case may be, of SAR under the scheme covered by Part C of Chapter III of these regulations; (c). in case of emergency for implementing the schemes covered under Part D and Part E of Chapter III of these regulations, and for this purpose - (i). the trustee shall record the reasons for such sale; and (ii).  money so realised on sale of shares shall be utilised within a definite time period as stipulated under the scheme or trust deed. (d). participation in buy-back or open offers or delisting offers or any other exit offered by the company generally to its shareholders, if required; (e). for repaying  the loan,  if the  un-appropriated  inventory  of  shares  held  by  the  trust  is not  appropriated  within  the  timeline  as  provided  under  sub-regulation  (12)  of  this regulation; (f). winding up of the scheme(s); and (g). based  on  approval  granted  by  SEBI  to  an  applicant,  for  the  reasons  recorded  in writing in respect of the schemes covered by Part A or Part B or Part C of Chapter III of these regulations, upon payment of a non-refundable fee of rupees one lakh along with  the  application  3[by  way  of  direct  credit  in  the  bank  account  through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS  or  any  other  mode  allowed  by  RBI  or]  by  way  of  a  banker’s cheque or demand draft payable at Mumbai in favour of the Board.
(16)  The  trust  shall  be  required  to  make  disclosures  and  comply  with  the  other  requirements applicable to insiders or promoters under the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 or any modification or re-enactment thereto. Eligibility.
4. An employee shall be eligible to participate in the schemes of the company as determined by the compensation committee. on the board of directors of the company – (i)   The contract or agreement entered into between the institution nominating its employee as the director of a company, and the director so appointed shall, inter alia, specify the following: a.     whether the grants by the company under its scheme(s) can be accepted by the said employee in his capacity as director of the company; b. that  grant  if  made  to  the  director,  shall  not  be  renounced  in  favour  of  the nominating institution; and c. the conditions subject to which fees, commissions, other incentives, etc. can be accepted by the director from the company. (ii)  the institution nominating its employee as a director of a company shall file a copy of the contract or agreement with the said company, which shall, in turn file the copy with all the stock exchanges on which its shares are listed. (iii)  the  director  so  appointed  shall  furnish  a  copy  of the  contract  or  agreement  at  the  first board meeting of the company attended by him after his nomination. Compensation committee.
5.  (1)  A  company  shall  constitute  a  compensation  committee  for  administration  and superintendence of the schemes: Provided  that  the  company  may  designate  such  of  its  other  committees  as  compensation committee if they fulfil the criteria as provided in sub-regulation (2) of this regulation: Provided  further  that  where  the  scheme  is  being  implemented  through  a  trust  the compensation committee shall delegate the administration of such scheme(s) to the trust.
(2) The compensation committee shall be a committee of such members of the board of directors of  the  company  as  provided  under  section  178  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013,  as  amended  or modified from time to time.
(3) The compensation committee shall, inter alia, formulate the detailed terms and conditions of the schemes which shall include the provisions as specified by Board in this regard.
(4) The compensation committee shall frame suitable policies and procedures to ensure that there is  no  violation  of  securities  laws,  as  amended  from  time  to  time,  including  Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 and Securities and 14 Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent  and Unfair Trade Practices Relating  to  the Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 by the trust, the company and its employees, as applicable. Shareholders approval.
6.  (1)  No  scheme  shall  be  offered  to  employees  of  a  company  unless  the  shareholders  of  the company approve it by passing a special resolution in the general meeting.
(2)  The  explanatory  statement  to  the  notice  and  the  resolution  proposed  to  be  passed  by shareholders  for  the  schemes  shall  include  the    information  as  specified  by  SEBI  in  this regard.
(3)  Approval  of  shareholders  by  way  of  separate  resolution  in  the  general  meeting  shall  be obtained by the company in case of: (a). Secondary  acquisition  for  implementation  of  the  schemes.  Such  approval  shall mention the percentage of secondary acquisition (subject to limits specified under these regulations) that could be undertaken; (b). Secondary acquisition by the trust in case the share capital expands due to capital expansion  undertaken  by  the  company  including preferential  allotment  of  shares or qualified institutions placement, to maintain the five per cent. cap as prescribed under  sub-regulation  (11)  of  regulation  3  of  such  increased  capital  of  the company; (c). Grant of option, SAR, shares  or other  benefits, as the case may be, to employees of subsidiary or holding 4[***] company; (d). Grant  of  option,  SAR,  shares  or  benefits,  as  the  case  may  be,  to  identified employees, during any one year, equal to or exceeding one per cent. of the issued capital  (excluding  outstanding  warrants  and  conversions)  of  the  company  at  the time of grant of option, SAR, shares or incentive, as the case may be. Variation of terms of the schemes.
7.  (1)  The  company  shall  not  vary  the  terms  of  the  schemes  in  any  manner,  which  may  be detrimental to the interests of the employees: Provided that the company shall be entitled to vary the terms of the schemes to meet any regulatory requirements.
(2)  Subject  to  the  proviso  to  sub-regulation  (1),  the  company  may  by  special resolution  in  a general meeting vary the terms of the schemes offered pursuant to an earlier resolution of the  general  body  but  not  yet  exercised  by  the  employee  provided  such  variation  is  not prejudicial to the interests of the employees.
(3) The  provisions of regulation 6 shall apply to such variation  of terms as they  apply to the original grant of option, SAR, shares or other benefits, as the case may be.
(4)  The  notice  for  passing  special  resolution  for  variation  of  terms  of  the  schemes  shall disclose  full  details  of  the  variation,  the  rationale  therefore,  and  the  details  of  the employees who are beneficiaries of such variation.
(5)  A  company  may  reprice  the  options,  SAR  or  shares,  as  the  case  may  be  which  are  not exercised, whether or not they have been vested if the schemes were rendered unattractive due to fall in the price of the shares in the stock market: Provided  that  the  company  ensures  that  such  repricing  shall  not  be  detrimental  to  the interest  of  the  employees  and  approval  of  the  shareholders  in  general  meeting  has  been obtained for such repricing. Winding up of the schemes. 16
8.     In case of winding up of the schemes being implemented by a company through trust, the excess monies or shares remaining  with  the trust after meeting all the obligations, if any, shall  be  utilised  for  repayment  of  loan  or  by  way  of  distribution  to  employees  as recommended by the compensation committee. Non-transferability.
9.(1) Option, SAR or any other benefit granted to an employee under the regulations shall not be transferable to any person.
(2)  No person other than the employee to whom the option, SAR  or other benefit is  granted shall be entitled to the benefit arising out of such option, SAR, benefit etc. : Provided  that  in  case  of  ESOS  or  SAR,  under  cashless  exercise,  the  company  may  itself fund or permit the empanelled stock brokers to fund the payment of exercise price which shall  be  adjusted  against  the  sale  proceeds  of  some  or  all  the  shares,  subject  to  the provisions of the applicable law or regulations.
(3)   The  option,  SAR,    or  any  other  benefit  granted  to  the  employee  shall  not  be  pledged, hypothecated, mortgaged or otherwise alienated in any other manner.
(4) In  the  event  of  death  of  the  employee  while  in  employment,  all  the  options,  SAR  or  any other  benefit  granted  to  him  under  a  scheme  till such  date  shall  vest  in  the  legal  heirs  or nominees of the deceased employee.
(5) In case the employee suffers a permanent incapacity while in employment, all the options, SAR  or  any  other  benefit  granted  to  him  under  a  scheme  as  on  the  date  of  permanent incapacitation, shall vest in him on that day.
(6) In  the  event  of resignation  or  termination  of  the  employee,  all  the  options,  SAR,    or  any other benefit which are granted and yet not vested as on that day shall expire: 17 Provided  that  an  employee  shall,  subject  to  the  terms  and  conditions  formulated  by  the compensation committee under the sub-regulation (3) of regulation 5, be entitled to retain all the vested options, SAR,  or any other benefit covered by these regulations.
(7) In the event that an employee who has been granted benefits under a scheme is transferred or deputed to an associate company prior to vesting or exercise, the vesting and exercise as per the terms of grant shall continue in case of such transferred or deputed employee even after the transfer or deputation. Listing.
10.   In  case  new  issue  of  shares  is  made  under  any  scheme,  shares  so  issued  shall  be  listed immediately in any recognised stock exchange where the existing shares are listed, subject to the following conditions: (a). Scheme is in compliance with these regulations; (b). A  statement  as  specified  by  SEBI  in  this  regard,  is  filed  and  the  company  has obtained an in-principle approval from the stock exchanges; (c). As  and  when  an  exercise  is  made,  the  company  notifies  the  concerned  stock exchange as per the statement as specified by SEBI in this regard. Schemes implemented by unlisted companies.
11.  The shares arising  after the initial public offering (“IPO”) of an unlisted company, out of options or SAR  granted under any scheme prior to its IPO to the employees shall be listed immediately  upon  exercise  in  all  the  recognised  stock  exchanges  where  the  shares  of  the company are listed subject to compliance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2009  and  where  applicable, sub-regulation (1) of regulation 12. 18 Compliances and conditions.
12. (1) No company shall make any fresh grant which involves allotment or transfer of shares to its employees under any schemes formulated prior to its IPO and prior to the listing of its equity shares ('pre-IPO scheme’) unless: (i)  Such pre-IPO scheme is in conformity with these regulations; and (ii)  Such pre-IPO scheme is ratified by its shareholders subsequent to the IPO. Provided that the ratification under clause (ii) may be done any time prior to grant of new options or shares or SAR  under such pre-IPO scheme.
(2)     No change shall be made in the terms of options or shares or SAR issued under such pre- IPO  schemes,  whether  by  repricing,  change  in  vesting  period  or  maturity  or  otherwise unless  prior  approval  of  the  shareholders  is  taken  for  such  a  change,  except  for  any adjustments for corporate actions made in accordance with these regulations.
(3)  For listing of shares issued pursuant to ESOS, ESPS or SAR , the company shall obtain the in-principle approval of the stock exchanges where it proposes to list the said shares.
(4)  When  holding  company  issues  option,  share,  SAR  or  benefits  to  the  employee  of  its subsidiary, the cost incurred by the holding company for issuing such option, share, SAR or benefits  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  'notes  to  accounts'  of  the  financial  statements  of  the subsidiary company.
(5) In a case falling under sub-regulation (4), if the subsidiary reimburses the cost incurred by the  holding  company  in  granting  option,  share,  SAR  or  benefits  to  the  employees  of  the subsidiary, both the subsidiary as well as the holding  company shall disclose the payment or receipt, as the case may be, in the ‘notes to accounts’ to their financial statements. 19
(6)  The  company  shall  appoint  a  registered  merchant  banker  for  the  implementation  of schemes covered by these regulations till the stage of obtaining in-principle approval from the stock exchanges in accordance with clause (b) of regulation 10. Certificate from auditors.
13. In  the  case  of  every  company  that  has  passed  a  resolution  for  the  schemes  under  these regulations,  the  board  of  directors  shall  at  each  annual  general  meeting  place  before  the shareholders  a  certificate  from  the  auditors  of  the  company  that  the  scheme(s)  has  been implemented in accordance with these regulations and in accordance with the resolution of the company in the general meeting. Disclosures.
14. In  addition  to  the  information  that  a  company  is  required  to  disclose,  in  relation  to employee  benefits  under  the  Companies  Act,  2013,  the  board  of  directors  of  such  a company shall also disclose the details of the scheme(s) being implemented, as specified by SEBI in this regard. Accounting policies.
15. (1) Any company implementing any of the share based schemes shall follow the requirements of the 'Guidance Note on Accounting for employee share-based Payments' (Guidance Note) or Accounting Standards as may be prescribed by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) from time to time, including the disclosure requirements prescribed therein.
(2)  Where  the  existing  Guidance  Note  or  Accounting  Standard  do  not  prescribe  accounting treatment  or  disclosure  requirements  for  any  of  the  schemes  covered  under  these regulations then the company shall comply with the relevant Accounting Standard as may be prescribed by the ICAI from time to time. 20 CHAPTER III ADMINISTRATION OF SPECIFIC SCHEMES PART A: EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION SCHEME (ESOS) Administration and implementation.
16.  (1) Subject  to  the  provisions  of  these  regulations,  the ESOS  shall  contain  the  details  of  the manner in which the scheme will be implemented and operated.
(2)  No ESOS shall be offered unless the disclosures, as specified by  Board in this regard, are made by the company to the prospective option grantees. Pricing.
17.  The company granting option to its employees pursuant to ESOS will have the freedom to determine the exercise price subject  to  conforming to  the accounting policies specified in regulation 15. Vesting period.
18.(1) There shall be a minimum vesting period of one year in case of ESOS: Provided  that  in  case  where  options  are  granted by  a  company  under  an ESOS  in  lieu  of options  held  by  a  person  under  an  ESOS  in  another  company  which  has  merged  or amalgamated  with  that  company,  the  period  during  which  the  options  granted  by  the transferor company were held by him shall be adjusted against the minimum vesting period required under this sub-regulation. 21
(2)  The company  may specify the lock-in  period for the shares issued pursuant to exercise of option. Rights of the option holder.
19.  The  employee  shall  not  have  right  to  receive  any  dividend  or  to  vote  or  in  any  manner enjoy the benefits of a shareholder in respect of option granted to him, till shares are issued upon exercise of option. Consequence of failure to exercise option.
20.  The amount payable by the employee, if any, at the time of grant of option, - (a). may be forfeited by the company if the option is not exercised by the employee within the exercise period; or (b). may be refunded to the employee if the options are not vested due to non-fulfilment of conditions relating to vesting of option as per the ESOS. PART B: EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE SCHEME (ESPS) Administration and implementation.
21.  Subject to the provisions of these regulations, the ESPS scheme shall contain the details of the manner in which the scheme will be implemented and operated. Pricing and lock-in.
22.(1)  The  company  may  determine  the  price  of  shares  to  be  issued  under  an  ESPS,  provided they conform to the provisions of accounting policies under regulation 15. 22
(2)  Shares issued under an ESPS shall be locked-in for a minimum period of one year from the date of allotment: Provided  that  in  case  where  shares  are  allotted  by  a  company  under  an  ESPS  in  lieu  of shares acquired by the same person under an ESPS in another company which has merged or amalgamated with the first mentioned company, the lock-in period already undergone in respect  of  shares  of  the  transferor  company  shall  be  adjusted  against  the  lock-in  period required under this sub-regulation.
(3) If ESPS is part of a public issue and the shares are issued to employees at the same price as in the public issue, the shares issued to employees pursuant to ESPS shall not be subject to lock-in. PART C : STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS SCHEME (SARS) Administration and implementation.
23. (1) Subject to the provisions of these regulations, the SAR scheme shall contain the details of the manner in which the scheme will be implemented and operated.
(2)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  these  regulations,  a  company  shall  have  the  freedom  to implement cash settled or equity settled SAR scheme: Provided that in  case of equity settled SAR scheme, if the settlement  results in  fractional shares, then the consideration for fractional shares should be settled in cash.
(3)  No  SAR  shall  be  offered  unless  the  disclosures, as  specified  by  Board in  this  regard,  are made by the company to the prospective SAR grantees. Vesting.
24. (1) There shall be a minimum vesting period of one year in case of SAR scheme: 23 Provided that in a case where SAR is granted by a company under a SAR scheme in lieu of SAR held by the same person under a SAR scheme in another company which has merged or  amalgamated  with  the  first  mentioned  company,  the  period  during  which  the  SAR granted by the transferor company were held by the employee shall be adjusted against the minimum vesting period required under this sub-regulation. Rights of the SAR holder.
25.  The employee shall not have right to receive dividend or to vote or in any manner enjoy the benefits of a shareholder in respect of SAR granted to him. PART D : GENERAL EMPLOYEE BENEFITS SCHEME (GEBS) Administration and implementation.
26. (1) Subject  to  the  provisions  of  these  regulations,  GEBS  shall  contain  the  details  of  the scheme and the manner in which the scheme shall be implemented and operated.
(2)    At no point in time, the shares of the company or shares of its listed holding company shall exceed ten per cent of the book value or market value or fair value of the total assets of the scheme, whichever is lower, as appearing in its latest balance sheet for the purposes of GEBS. PART E: RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEME (RBS) Administration and implementation.
27.  (1)  Retirement  benefit  scheme  may  be  implemented  by  a  company  provided  it  is  in compliance with  these regulations, and provisions of any other law in force in relation  to retirement benefits. 24
(2)  The  retirement  benefit  scheme  shall  contain  the  details  of  the  benefits  under  the  scheme and the manner in which the scheme shall be implemented and operated.
(3)    At no point in time, the shares of the company or shares of its listed holding company shall exceed ten per cent of the book value or market value or fair value of the total assets of the scheme,  whichever  is  lower,  as  appearing  in  its  latest  balance  sheet  for  the  purposes  of RBS. 5[CHAPTER III-A POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
27A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of  the  provisions  of  these  regulations for  a  period  as  may  be  specified  but  not  exceeding twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new products,  processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  in  live  environment  of  regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)  Any  exemption  granted  by  the  Board  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  subject  to  the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. environment  where  new  products,  processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  may  be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering innovation in  the securities market, subject  to  such conditions as may be specified by the Board.] CHAPTER IV 25 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS Power to remove difficulties.
28. (1)  In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  interpretation  and  application  of  the provisions  of  these  regulations,  the  Board  shall  have  the  power  to  issue  clarifications through guidance notes or circulars.
(2)  The  Board  shall  have  power  to  specify  such  disclosure  and  process  requirements through  guidance  notes  or  circulars,  as  may  be  necessary  for  protection  of  interest  of investors, securities market  and for regulation of all schemes, by listed companies for the benefit of their employees, involving dealing, directly or indirectly, in  shares and matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. Power to relax strict enforcement of the regulations.
29. (1)  The  Board  may  suo  motu  or  on  an  application  made  by  a  company,  for  reasons recorded in  writing, grant  relaxation from  strict compliance with  any of these regulations subject to such conditions as the Board deems fit to impose in the interests of investors in securities and the securities market.
(2) A company making an application under sub-regulation (1), shall pay a non-refundable fee  of  rupees  one  lakh  6[by  way  of  direct  credit  in  the  bank  account  through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI or] by way of a banker's cheque or demand draft payable at Mumbai in favour of the Board. Directions by the Board and action in case of default.
30.  The Board may issue any direction or order or undertake any measure in the interests of the investors or the securities market, and deal with any contravention of these regulations, in exercise of its powers under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) or the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) and any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto. Repeals and savings.
31. (1) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee Stock Purchase Scheme) Guidelines, 1999 are hereby repealed.
3.  (1)  An  application  by  a  debenture  trustee  for  grant  of  a  certificate  24[of  25[***] registration] shall be made to the Board in Form A. 26[(1A)  An  application  for  registration  made  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as specified in Schedule II.]
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), any application made by a  debenture  trustee  prior  to  coming  into  force  of  these  regulations  containing  such particulars as near thereto as mentioned in Form A shall be treated as an application made in pursuance of sub-regulation (1) and dealt with accordingly. Furnishing of further information, clarification, etc.
4. (1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish further information or clarification regarding matters which are relevant to a debenture trustee to consider the application for a grant of a certificate.
(2) The applicant or, its principal officer shall, if so required, appear before the Board for personal representation. Application to conform to the requirements.
5. Subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3, any application, which is not complete in all respects and does not conform to the instructions specified in the form, shall be rejected: Provided that, before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given an opportunity to remove within the time specified such objections as may be indicated by the Board. Consideration of application.
6.  The  Board  shall  take  into  account  for  considering  the  grant  of  a  certificate,  all matters  which  are  relevant  to  a  debenture  trustee  and  in  particular  the  following, namely, whether the applicant,— (a)  has  the  necessary  infrastructure  like  adequate  office  space,  equipments,  and manpower to effectively discharge his activities; (b)  has  any  past  experience  as  a  debenture  trustee  or  has  in  his  employment minimum two persons who had the experience in matters which are relevant to a debenture trustee; (c)  or  any  person,  directly  or  indirectly  connected  with  the  applicant  has  not  been granted registration by the Board under the Act; 27[(d)  has  in  his  employment  at  least  one  person  who  possesses  the  professional qualification in law from an institution recognised by the Government;] (e)or any of its director or principal officer is or has at any time been convicted for any offence  involving  moral  turpitude  or  has  been  found  guilty  of  any  economic offence ; 28[(f) is a fit and proper person;] 29 [(g)  fulfills the capital adequacy requirements specified in regulation 7A.] 30[ Criteria for fit and proper person
6A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the debenture trustee is a fit and proper person the Board may take into account the criteria specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.] 31[Eligibility for being debenture trustee.
7.  No person shall be entitled to act as a debenture trustee unless it is :— (a) (b) a scheduled bank carrying on commercial activity; or a public financial institution as defined sub-section (72) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013; or substitution clause (d) read as under : “(d) has in its employment at least one  person who possesses the professional qualification from an institution recognized by the Government in finance, accountancy, law or business management. ”
2008. Prior to its substitution regulation 6A read as under: “Applicability  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India Proper Person) Regulations, 2004. (Criteria for  Fit  and same, regulation 7 read as follows: “Eligibility for being debenture trustee.
7. No person shall be entitled to act as a debenture trustee unless he is either— (a) (b) (c) (d) a scheduled bank carrying on commercial activity; or a public financial institution within the meaning of section 4A of the Companies Act, 1956; or an insurance company; or body corporate.” (c) (d) an insurance company; or body  corporate  as  defined  under  sub-section  (11)  of  section  2  of  the Companies Act, 2013.] 32[Capital Adequacy Requirement.
7A. The capital adequacy requirement referred to in clause (g) of regulation 6 shall not be less than the net worth of 33[ten] crore rupees: 34[Provided  that  a  debenture  trustee  holding  certificate  of registration  as  on  the date  of  commencement  of  the Securities and Exchange  Board of India  (Debenture Trustees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019 shall fulfil the net worth requirements within three years from the date of such commencement.] 35[***]
36[8. Grant of certificate of 37[***] registration.
(1) The Board on being satisfied that the applicant is eligible, shall send an intimation to the applicant, within one month of such satisfaction, that it has been found eligible for grant of certificate of 38[***] registration and grant a certificate in Form B.
39[(2)  The  certificate  of  registration  granted  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  valid unless it is suspended or cancelled by the Board.] 2003, it read as under: "Capital Adequacy Requirement.
7A. The capital adequacy requirement referred to in clause (g) of regulation 6 shall not be less than the networth of one crore rupees: Provided  that  a  debenture  trustee  holding  certificate  of  registration  as  on  the  date  of  commencement  of  the
40[(3) The debenture trustee who has already been granted certificate of registration by the Board, prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Conditions of Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 shall be deemed to have been granted a certificate of registration, in terms of sub-regulation (1).]
(4) The grant of a certificate of  41[***] registration shall be subject to payment of the registration fee as specified in Schedule II of these regulations.
8A. 42[***]
9. 43[***] omission, it read as under: "Renewal of certificate.
9(1) A debenture trustee may, if he so desires, make an application in Form A for renewal of certificate before three months of the expiry of the period of certificate. 43[(1A)  An  application  for  renewal  made  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  accompanied  by  a  non-refundable application fee as specified in Schedule II.]
(2) The application for renewal of certificate under sub-regulation (1) shall be dealt with in the same manner as if it were an application for grant of a certificate made under regulation 3." 44[Conditions of registration.
9A.(1)  45[Registration  granted  under  regulation  8]  shall  be  subject  to  the  following conditions, namely :— (a)where debenture trustee proposes  46[change in control], it shall obtain prior approval of the Board for continuing to act as such after the change; 47[(b)  it  shall  pay  the  fees  for  registration,  in  the  manner  provided  in  these regulations;] (c)it shall take adequate steps for redressal of grievances of the investors within one  month  of  the  date  of  the  receipt  of  the  complaint  and  keep  the  Board informed  about  the  number,  nature  and  other  particulars  of  the  complaints received and the manner in which such complaints have been redressed; (d) 7A at all times during the period of the 48[***]; (e)it shall abide by the regulations made under the Act in respect of the activities carried on by it as a debenture trustee. 49[(f) it shall immediately intimate the Board, details of changes that have taken place in the information that was submitted, while seeking registration.] it  shall  maintain  capital  adequacy  requirements  specified  in  regulation
(2) Nothing contained in clause (a) of sub-regulation (1) shall affect the obligation to obtain a fresh registration under section 12 of the Act in cases where it is applicable.
9B. 50[***] Procedure where registration is not granted. granted  under  regulation  8A]”  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of
10. 51[(1) Where an application for grant of a certificate of registration under regulation 3  does  not  fulfil  the  requirements  set  out  in  regulation  6,  the  Board  shall  reject  the application after giving an opportunity of being heard.]
52[(2) The refusal to grant registration shall be communicated by the Board within thirty days  of  such  refusal  to  the  applicant  stating  therein  the  grounds  on  which  the application has been rejected.]
(3)  Any  applicant  may,  being  aggrieved  by  the  decision  of  the  Board  under  sub- regulation  (2),  apply  within  a  period  of  thirty  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  such intimation, to the Board for, reconsideration of its decision.
(4)  On  receipt  of  the  application  made  under  sub-regulation  (3),  the  Board  shall reconsider its decision and communicate its findings thereon as soon as possible in writing to the applicant.
53[11. ***] Payment of fees, and the consequences of failure to pay fees.
12.  54[(1) Every applicant eligible for grant of registration, shall pay the fees in such manner and within the period specified in Schedule II:]
(2) Where the debenture trustee fails to pay the fees as provided in sub-regulation (1), the  Board  may  suspend  the  certificate,  whereupon  the  debenture  trustee  shall forthwith cease to act as a debenture trustee. Chapter III RESPONSIBILITIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF DEBENTURE TRUSTEES Obligation before appointment as debenture trustees.
13. No debenture trustee who has been granted a certificate under regulation 8 shall act as such in respect of each issue of debenture unless— 55 [(a) he enters into a written agreement with the body corporate before the opening of the subscription list for issue of debentures; (b) the agreement under clause (a) shall inter alia contain: 56[(i)  an  undertaking  by  the  body  corporate  to  comply  with  all  regulations  / provisions of Companies Act, 2013, guidelines of other regulatory authorities in respect of allotment of debentures till redemption; (ii) the time limit within which the security for the debentures shall be created or the  agreement  shall  be  executed  in  accordance  with  the  Companies  Act, 2013 or provisions as prescribed by any regulatory authority as applicable.]] Debenture Trustee not to act for an associate.
57[13A. 58[A person shall not be appointed as a debenture trustee, in case-
“(1) Every applicant eligible for grant 54[of initial or permanent registration, as the case may be] shall pay the fees in such manner and within the period specified in Schedule II:” Form  No.  SH.12  specified  under  the  Companies  (Share  Capital  and  Debentures) Rules, 2014.  Such trust deed shall consist of two parts: a. Part A containing statutory/standard information pertaining to the debt issue; b. Part B containing details specific to the particular debt issue.] Duties of the debenture trustees.
15. 60[(1) It shall be the duty of every debenture trustee to- (a)  satisfy  itself  that  the  prospectus  or  letter  of  offer  does  not  contain  any matter which is inconsistent with the terms of the issue of debentures or with the trust deed; (b)  satisfy itself that the covenants in the trust deed are not prejudicial to the interest of the debenture holders; (c)  call  for  periodical  status/  performance  reports  from  the  issuer  company within  7  days  of  the  relevant  board  meeting  or  within  45  days  of  the respective quarter whichever is earlier; (d)  communicate  promptly  to  the  debenture  holders  defaults,  if  any,  with regard  to  payment  of  interest  or  redemption  of  debentures  and  action taken by the trustee therefor; 60 Substituted ibid. Prior to the same, the provision read as follows:
“(1) It shall be the duty of every debenture trustee to— (a)  call for periodical reports from the body corporate; (b)  [***] (c)  take possession of trust property in accordance with the provisions of the trust deed; (ca) supervise the implementation of the conditions regarding creation of security for the debentures and debenture redemption reserve, wherever applicable; (d)enforce security in the interest of the debenture holders; (e)do such acts as are necessary in the event the security becomes enforceable; (f) carry out such acts as are necessary for the protection of the debenture holders and to do all things necessary in order to resolve the grievances of the debenture holders; (g)ascertain and satisfy itself  that the— (i)in  case  where  the  allotment  letter  has  been  issued  and  debenture  certificate  is  to  be  issued  after registration of charge, the debenture certificates have been despatched by the body corporate to the debenture holders within 30 days of the registration of the charge with the Registrar of Companies;] (ii)  debenture  certificates  have  been  despatched  to  the  debenture  holders  in  accordance  with  the provisions of the Companies Act; (iii)  interest warrants for interest due on the debentures have been despatched to the debenture holders on or before the due dates; (iv)  debenture holders have been paid the monies due to them on the date of redemption of the debentures; (h)ensure on a continuous basis that the property charged to the debentures is available and adequate at all times to discharge the interest and principal amount payable in respect of the debentures and that such property is free from any other encumbrances save and except those which are specifically agreed to by the debenture trustee;] (i)  exercise due diligence to ensure compliance by the body corporate, with the provisions of the Companies Act, the listing agreement of the stock exchange or the trust deed; (j)  to take appropriate measures for protecting the interest of the debenture holders as soon as any breach of the trust deed or law comes to his notice; (k)  to ascertain that the debentures have been converted or redeemed in accordance with the provisions and conditions under which they are offered to the debenture holders; (l) inform the Board immediately of any breach of trust deed or provision of any law; (m)  appoint a nominee director on the Board of the body corporate in the event of: (i)  two consecutive defaults in payment of interest to the debenture holders; or (ii)  default in creation of security for debentures; or (iii)  default in redemption of debentures; (n) communicate to the debenture holders on half yearly basis the compliance of the terms of the issue by the body corporate, defaults, if any, in payment of interest or redemption of debentures and action taken therefor.” (e)  appoint a nominee director on the Board of the company in the event of: (i) (ii) (iii) two  consecutive  defaults  in  payment  of  interest  to  the debenture holders; or default in creation of security for debentures; or default in redemption of debentures. (g) (f)  ensure that the company does not commit any breach of the terms of issue of debentures or covenants of the trust deed and take such reasonable steps as may be necessary to remedy any such breach; inform the debenture holders immediately of any breach of the terms of issue of debentures or covenants of the trust deed; 61[ensure  the  implementation  of  the  conditions  regarding  creation  of security  for  the  debentures,  if  any,  debenture  redemption  reserve  and recovery expense fund]; (h) (i)  ensure  that  the  assets  of  the  company  issuing  debentures  and  of  the guarantors,  if  any,  are  sufficient  to  discharge  the  interest  and  principal amount  at  all  times  and  that  such  assets  are  free  from  any  other encumbrances  except  those  which  are  specifically  agreed  to  by  the debenture holders; (j)  do  such  acts  as  are  necessary  in  the  event  the  security  becomes enforceable; (k)  call for reports on the utilization of funds raised by the issue of debentures; take steps to convene a meeting of the holders of debentures as and when (l) such meeting is required to be held; (m)  ensure  that  the  debentures  have  been  converted  or  redeemed  in accordance with the terms of the issue of debentures; (o) (n)  perform such acts as are necessary for the protection of the interest of the debenture  holders  and  do  all  other  acts  as  are  necessary  in  order  to resolve the grievances of the debenture holders; take possession of trust property in accordance with the provisions of the trust deed; to take appropriate measures for protecting the interest of the debenture holders as soon as any breach of the trust deed or law comes to his notice; (p) (q)  ascertain and satisfy itself that,- (i) (ii) in  case  where  the  allotment  letter  has  been  issued  and debenture certificate is to be issued after registration of charge, the  debenture  certificates  have  been  dispatched  by  the  body corporate  to  the  debenture  holders  within  30  days  of  the registration of the charge with the Registrar of Companies; debenture  certificates have  been  dispatched  to  the debenture holders  or  debentures  have  been  credited  in  the  demat accounts  of  the  debenture  holders  in  accordance  with  the provisions  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Debenture  Trustee)  Regulations  1993,  Securities  and Exchange Board of India  (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations  2008,  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India the same, clause (h) read as follows: “ensure  the  implementation  of  the  conditions  regarding  creation  of  security  for  the  debentures,  if  any,  and debenture redemption reserve;” (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015 and any other regulations issued by the Board; interest warrants for interest due on the debentures have been dispatched to the debenture holders on or before the due dates; debenture holders have been paid the monies due to them on the date of redemption of the debentures; (iii) (iv) (r) inform the Board immediately of any breach of trust deed or provision of any law, which comes to the knowledge of the trustee. debenture  trustee  as  mentioned  in  these  regulations  may  be  made  by electronic media, press-release and placing notice on its website; (s)  exercise due diligence to ensure compliance by the body corporate, with the provisions of the Companies Act, Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirement),  Regulations, 2015, the listing agreement of the stock exchange or the trust deed or any other regulations issued by the Board pertaining to debt issue; 62[In case where listed debt securities are secured by way of receivables/ book debts it shall, - (t) (i) on a Quarterly basis- (a)  carry out the necessary due diligence and monitor the asset cover in the manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time. (ii) on a Half-Yearly basis- (a) obtain a certificate from the statutory auditor of the issuer  giving  the  value  of  receivables/book  debts including  compliance  with  the  covenants  of  the Offer  Document/Information  Memorandum  in  the manner  as  may  be  specified  by  the  Board  from time to time.] 63[(1A) The debenture trustee shall: (a) obtain reports from the lead bank regarding progress of the project; (b) monitor utilisation of funds raised in the issue; 64[(c) obtain a certificate from the issuer's Statutory Auditor: (i)  in  respect  of  utilisation  of  funds  during  the  implementation  period  of  the project; and the same, clause (t) read as follows: “In case where listed debt securities are secured by way of receivables/ book debts it shall obtain the following,- (i) On Quarterly basis- (a) Certificate from the Director / Managing Director of the issuer company certifying the value of the book debts / receivables; (b) Certificate from an independent chartered accountant giving the value of book debts / receivables. (ii) On Yearly basis- (a) Certificate from the statutory auditor giving the value of book debts / receivables.” (ii) in the case of debentures issued for financing working capital, at the end of each accounting year.]]
(2) A debenture trustee shall call or cause to be called by the body corporate a meeting of all the debenture holders on— (a)   a  requisition  in  writing  signed by  at  least  one-tenth of the  debenture  holders  in value for the time being outstanding; (b)   the happening of any event, which constitutes a default 65[or breach of covenants (as specified in the Offer Document/Information Memorandum and/or debenture trust deed)] or which in the opinion of the debenture trustees affects the interest of the debenture holders: 66[Provided that a debenture trustee may seek the consent of debenture holders through e-voting, wherever applicable; Provided  further  that  the  requirement  to  convene  a  meeting  of  all  debenture holders  in  case  of  a  default  in  payment  obligation  by  the  issuer,  shall  not  be applicable in case of debentures issued by way of public issue.]
67[(3)  No  debenture  trustee  shall  relinquish  its  assignments  as  debenture  trustee  in respect  of  the  debenture  issue  of  any  body  corporate,  unless  and  until  another debenture trustee is appointed in its place by the body corporate.
(4) A debenture trustee shall maintain the networth requirements as specified in these regulations on a continuous basis and shall inform the Board immediately in respect of any shortfall in the networth and in such a case it shall not be entitled to undertake new  assignments  until  it  restores  the  networth  to  the  level  of  specified  requirement within the time specified by the Board.
(5) A debenture trustee may inspect books of account, records, registers of the body corporate and the trust property to the extent necessary for discharging its obligations.]
68[(6)  Before  creating  a  charge  on  the  security  for  the  debentures,  the  debenture trustee shall exercise independent due diligence to ensure that such security is free from  any  encumbrance  or  that  it  has  obtained  the  necessary  consent  from  other charge-holders  if  the  security  has  an  existing  charge,  in  the  manner  as  may  be specified by the Board from time to time.
(7)  Subject  to  the  approval  of  the  debenture  holders  and  the  conditions  as  may  be specified  by  the  Board  from  time  to  time,  the  debenture  trustee,  on  behalf  of  the debenture  holders,  may  enter  into  inter-creditor  agreements  provided  under  the framework specified by the Reserve Bank of India.] Code of Conduct.
16.  Every  debenture  trustee  shall  abide  by  the  Code  of  Conduct  as  specified  in Schedule III. Maintenance of books of account, records, documents, etc.
17. 69[(1) Subject to the provisions of any law every debenture trustee shall keep and maintain proper books of account, records and documents, relating to the trusteeship
(2) Every debenture trustee shall intimate to the Board, the place where the books of account, records and documents are maintained. 70[Appointment of compliance officer.
17A.  (1)  Every  debenture  trustee  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be responsible  for  monitoring  the  compliance  of  the  Act,  rules  and  regulations, notifications,  guidelines,  instructions,  etc.,  issued  by  the  Board  or  the  Central Government and for redressal of investors’ grievances.
(2) The compliance officer shall immediately  and independently report to the Board any non-compliance observed by him.]
71[(3)  The  compliance  officer  shall  report  any  non-compliance,  of  the  requirements specified  in  the  listing  agreement  with  respect  to  debenture  issues  and  debenture holders, by the body corporate to the Board.]
72[(4) The Compliance Officer so appointed shall obtain certification in terms of the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Certification  of  Associated  Persons  in  the Securities Markets) Regulations, 2007 or as may be specified by the Board.] Information to the Board.
18. (1) Every debenture trustee shall as and when required by the Board submit the following information and documents, namely:— (a)  the number and nature of the grievances of the debenture holders received and resolved; (b)  copies of the trust deed; (c)  non-payment  or  delayed  payment  of  interest  to  debenture  holders,  if  any,  in respect of each issue of debentures of a body corporate; (d)  details of despatch and transfer of debenture certificates giving therein the dates, mode, etc.; (e)  any other particular or document which is relevant to debenture trustee.
(2) Where any information is called for under sub-regulation (1) it shall be the duty of the debenture trustees to furnish such information. Chapter IV INSPECTION AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS Board’s right to inspect.
19. (1) Where it appears to the Board so to do, it may appoint one or more persons as inspecting authority to undertake the inspection of the books of account, other records and  documents  of  the  debenture  trustee  for  any  of  the  purposes  specified  in  sub- regulation (2).
(2) The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be as follows, namely:—
“(1) Subject to the provisions of any law every debenture trustee shall keep and maintain proper books of account, records  and  documents,  relating  to  the  trusteeship  functions  for  a  period  of  not  less  than  five  financial  years preceding the current financial year.” 2001 (a)  to  ensure  that  the  records  and  documents  which  are  relevant  to  debenture trustees are being maintained in the manner required by the Board; 73[“(b) that the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, Circulars, rules and regulations are being complied with;] (c)  to ascertain as to whether there exist any circumstances which would render the debenture trustee ineligible for grant of registration or continuance thereof; (d)  to  investigate  into  the  complaints  received  from  investors,  other  debenture trustees or any other person on any matter having a bearing on the activities of the debenture trustee; and (e)  to investigate suo moto in the interest of securities business or investors interest into the affairs of the debenture trustee. Procedure for inspection.
20. (1) Before undertaking an inspection under regulation 19, the Board shall give a reasonable notice to the debenture trustee for that purpose.
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  where  the  Board  is satisfied that in the interest of the investors or in public interest no such notice should be given, it may by an order in writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the debenture trustee be taken up without such notice.
(3)  On  being  empowered  by  the  Board  the  inspecting  authority  shall  undertake inspection and the debenture trustee against whom an inspection is being carried out shall be bound to discharge his obligations as provided under regulation 21. Obligations of debenture trustee on inspection by the Board.
21.  (1) It  shall  be  the duty  of every  director,  officer and  employee of  the debenture trustee who is being inspected, to produce to the inspecting authority such books and other  documents  in  his  custody  or  control  and  furnish  him  with  the  statements  and information  relating  to  the  debenture  trustee  within  such  time  as  the  inspecting authority may require.
(2)  The  debenture  trustee  shall  allow  the  inspecting  authority  to have  a  reasonable access to the premises occupied by the debenture trustee or by any other person, on his  behalf  and  also  extend  reasonable  facility  for  examining  any  books,  records, documents and computer data in the possession of the debenture trustee or any such other person on their behalf and also provide copies of documents or other materials which in the opinion of the inspecting authority, are relevant for the purposes of the inspection.
(3) The inspecting authority shall in the course of inspection, be entitled to examine or record statements of any officer, director or employee of the debenture trustee.
(4) It shall be the duty of every director, officer or employee of the debenture trustee to  give  to  the  inspecting  authority  all  assistance  in  connection  with  the  inspection, which the debenture trustee may reasonably be expected to give. Submission of report to the Board.
22. The inspecting authority shall, as soon as may be possible, submit an inspection report to the Board. same, clause (b) read as follows: “(b)  that the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956, rules and regulations are being complied with;” 74[Action on inspection or investigation report.
23. The Board or the Chairman shall after consideration of inspection or investigation report  take  such  action  as  the  Board  or  Chairman  may  deem  fit  and  appropriate including  action  under  75[Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008].] Appointment of Auditor.
24.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  above  the  Board  may  appoint  a  qualified auditor to investigate into the records of, or the affairs of, the debenture trustee: Provided that the auditor so appointed shall have the same powers of the inspecting authority as mentioned in regulation 19 and the obligation of the debenture trustee in regulation 21 shall be applicable to the investigation under this regulation. have the same meaning as given to it in section 226 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of
1956). Chapter V PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 76[77[Liability for action in case of default.
25. (1) A Debenture Trustee which- (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) (f) (g) (h) fails to comply with any conditions subject to which certificate has been granted; contravenes any of the provisions of the Act or these regulations; contravenes the provisions of the Companies Act or the rules made there under; fails  to  furnish  any  information  relating  to  its  activity  as  a  Debenture Trustee as required by the Board; furnishes  to  the  Board  information  which  is  false  or  misleading  in  any material particular; does not submit periodic returns or reports as required by the Board; does  not  co-operate  in  any  enquiry,  inspection  or  investigation conducted by the Board; fails to resolve the complaints of investors or fails to give a satisfactory reply to the Board in this behalf; shall be dealt with in the manner provided under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.
(2) Nothing contained in sub-regulation (1) shall prejudice the powers of the Board to issue directions or measures under sections 11, 11B, 11D, sub-section (3) of section 12 or section 24 or Chapter VIA of the Act or under any other law for the time being in force.]]
26. to 32. 78[***] 79[CHAPTER VI POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
33. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not  exceeding  twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects relating  to  testing  new  products,  processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  in  live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. live testing environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board.] Schedule I Forms 80[FORM A Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993 [81[Regulation 3]] 82[Application for Grant of Certificate of Registration as Debenture Trustee] Name of Applicant and its status .................................................................................... (For status see regulation 7) Name and Designation of Principal Officer ……………………………………. Designation.................................................................... Telephone No. .............................................................. E- mail................................................................................ Instructions:—
1.  Applicants  must  submit  a  completed  application
3.  Information  which  needs to  be  supplied  in  more form  together  with  supporting  documents  to  the detail  may  be  written  on Securities and Exchange Board of India. separate  sheets  which should be attached to the application form.
2.  All columns of the application should be filled in. In case a column is not relevant then “not applicable” should be specified.
4.  Original copy of form duly be signed submitted for registration. should PART I General Information
1. Applicant’s details
1.1 Name of the applicant:
1.2 Address of the applicant: Pin code: Telex No.: E-mail:
1.3 Address of the applicant for correspondence: Pin code: Telex No: E-mail: Telephone No.: Fax No.: Telephone No.: Fax No.: (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12- (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f. 5-7-2011 for the word and figure "Regulation 3". Trustee”  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of  Registration  Of  Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.  Prior to this the words “Application for Grant Trustees)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2011,  w.e.f.  5-7-2011  for  the  words  "Application  for  Registration  as Debenture Trustee". Name of the Compliance Officer: Designation:
1.4 Address of branch offices (in India) of the applicant, if any:
1.5 Whether any other application under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Telephone: Act, 1992, has been made for grant of certificate, if so, details thereof:
1.5(a) Whether the applicant or its Director/s or partner/s is a partner or proprietor or promoter/s  or  director/s  in  any  of  its  associate/group  company/concern  or  any company/concern which is also registered with SEBI under any of its Regulations, and if so, details thereof: Name  of  the  company/ concern given/penal action Category registered SEBI Regn. No. warning Any taken/investigation/enquiry initiated/pending Year Place Month from relevant  documents like,  charter/memorandum  of
1.6 In case the applicant is a Bank or an NBFC, any warning/action taken by RBI.
2. Organisation structure:
2.1 Objects of the organisation of the applicant. (Attach  extracts association/articles of association, etc.) in support of objects of the organisation.
2.2 Date and place of incorporation/establishment of the organisation of the applicant. Day
2.3 Organisation chart stating the functional responsibilities at various levels.
2.4 Particulars of all directors. [Name,  qualification,  experience,  date  of  appointment,  other  directorship,  (Name  & date of appointment), previous positions held.]
2.5  Number  of  employees  (mention  separately  the  employees  in  the  debenture trusteeship activity).
2.6 Name and activities of associate companies/concerns. Name/Address/Phone Nos./Type of activity/Ownership details/Nature and quantum of financial trading.
2.7 List of major shareholders (holding 5% or more voting rights) and percentage of their shareholdings.
3. Details of infrastructural facilities:
3.1 Office space (mention the extent of area and ownership details available).
3.2 Office equipment (mention the details of electronic office equipment, typewriters, telecommunication equipment, furniture  and  fixtures, other  communication facilities, etc.) (For point Nos. 3.1 and 3.2, please mention the infrastructure for debenture trustee activity separately)
4. Business plan (for three years) (a)  History, major achievements and present activity
5. Financial information:
5.1 Capital structure Year  prior  to  the  Preceding year of current year Current year (Rs. in lakhs) preceding year (a)  Paid-up capital (b)  Free reserves (excluding revaluation reserves) (c)  Total (a) + (b) (d)  Loans (details) (e)  Net profit: (i)General (ii)Specific
5.2 Deployment of resources (a)  Fixed assets (b)  Plant and machinery and office equipment (c)  Investments (Details should be given separately) (d)  Others
6. Other information:
6.1 Name and address of the principal bankers
6.2 Name and Address of the auditors (internal, external and tax auditor, if any, as applicable).
6.3 Indicate involvement in any offence relating to economic offences (including those concerned with the securities market) in the last three years, if any.
6.4 Any significant awards or recognition, collective grievances against the services rendered by the applicant.
6.5 Any other information considered relevant to the nature of services rendered by the applicant. PART II
7. Business information
7.1 Describe proposed activity.
7.2 Details of key legal personnel: a.  Name of the person b. Responsibility c. Experience
7.3 Existing/proposed facilities for redressal of investor grievances. (Furnish  number  and  type  of  complaints  received,  follow-up  with  the  companies, average  time  taken  in  resolving  the  complaints  and  overall  system  of  handling complaints).
7.4 Details of any personnel experience in the activity of debenture trusteeship.
8. Experience
8.1 Experience as debenture trustee (Name of the body corporate, on whose behalf the applicant has acted as debenture trustee,  particulars  of  debenture  issue,  size  of  debenture  issue,  when  trust  deed  is signed, remuneration/fee received.)
8.2  Details  where  applicant  has  resigned  as  debenture  trustee  or  have  discharged therefrom, give full details and reasons therefor.
8.3 In case of resignation or discharge as the case may be whether the applicant has vacated the office before the appointment of successor. If so, give reasons and full details.
8.4 Whether the applicant has ensured that security has been created in the stipulated time in respect of debentures it acted as debenture trustee.
8.5 Whether the applicant has taken steps like appointment of nominee directors in case of the debenture issue of any company. Declaration This declaration must be signed by principal officer/s I/We hereby apply for grant of certificate of registration by the Board. I/We warrant that I/we will carry out my/our duties in accordance with the Act, Rules and Regulations. I/We  state  that  I/we  have  truthfully  and  fully  answered  the  questions  above  and provided  all  the  information  which  might  reasonably  be  considered  relevant  for  the purposes of my/our grant of certificate for registration and I/we will promptly notify the Board of any changes in the information during the period that my/our registration is being considered and if my/our registration is accepted, thereafter. I/We understand that misleading or attempting to mislead the Board shall render the applicant liable to disciplinary proceedings. I/We certify that the above information and information supplied in the application form is true, complete and correct. “We hereby declare and undertake that— (a)  the applicant-company, its directors or Principal Officers is/or has not at any time been convicted for any offence involving moral turpitude or been found guilty of any economic offence (including those concerned with the securities market), (b)  no  person  directly  or  indirectly  connected  with  the  applicant  has  applied  or been granted registration by the Securities and Exchange Board of India to act as Debenture Trustee.” For and on behalf of ....................................... Name of applicant Place: Date: 83 [***] ........................................ Name of applicant Place: Date: Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. “Additional information sheet: (in case of application for 83[permanent] registration)
1.  Whether the applicant has complied with the terms and conditions mentioned in the registration letter?
2.  Whether  the  applicant  has  complied  with  the  SEBI  (Debenture  Trustees)  Rules  and  Regulations  and  the guidelines issued by SEBI from time to time.
3. Whether any associate/group company of the applicant is also registered with SEBI under any Regulations, and if so the following details are to be furnished: Name of the company/ concern SEBI Regn No. warning Any taken/investigation/enquiry initiated/pending given/penal action
4-5.  Whether any investigation/enquiry has been initiated/is pending against the applicant.
6.  Whether the applicant has submitted all the quarterly reports.
7.  Any warning given/penal action taken against the applicant.
8.  Whether the applicant has paid the fees due to SEBI in the last 3 years. Give details of payment.
9.  Details of public/rights issue for which the applicant acted as trustees in the last 3 years.
10.  In  case  of  any  defaults,  specifically  state  the  action  the  applicant  has  taken  to  protect  the  interest  of  the debenture holders and whether penal interest has been paid to the debenture holders. (a)  List  of  debenture  issues  for  which  the  applicant  was  acting  as  debenture  trustees  under  earlier registration where defaults by the issuers in terms of delays/non-payment of interest/principal have occurred. Company
11.  Whether the applicant has obtained auditors certificate for end-use of funds for all public/rights issues. debenture trustees.” Investor  grievances  relating  to  the  debentures  of  companies  for  which  the  applicant  acted  as Details of defaults Details of issue
12. FORM B Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993 [84[Regulation 8]] 85[Certificate of Registration] I. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with the Rules and Regulations made thereunder  for  the  debenture  trustee,  the  Board  hereby  grants  a  certificate  of registration to......as a debenture trustee, subject to the conditions in the Rules and in accordance with the Regulations. II. Registration Code for the debenture trustee is........
3.  (1)  On and from the commencement of these regulations, no entity or person shall act as an Alternative Investment Fund unless it has obtained a certificate of registration from the Board: Provided  that  an  existing  fund  falling  within  the  definition  of  Alternative  Investment Fund which is not registered with the Board may continue to operate for a period of six months  from  commencement  of  these  regulations  or  if  it  has  made  an  application  for registration under sub-regulation (5) within the said period of six months, till the disposal of such application: to the substitution, it read as “Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)”. Provided  further  that  the  Board  may,  in  special  cases,  extend  the  said  period  up  to  a maximum of twelve months from the date of such commencement: Provided further that existing schemes will be allowed to complete their agreed tenure, such  funds  shall  not  raise  any  fresh  monies  other  than  commitments  already  made  till registration is granted under regulation 6: 11[Provided  further that such existing funds, which do not  propose  to  accept  any fresh commitments  after  commencement  of  these  regulations  shall  not  be  required  to  obtain registration under these regulations subject to submission of information on their activities to the Board in the manner as may be specified] Provided  further  that  if  such  existing  funds  are  not  able  to  comply  with  conditions specified under these regulations, they may apply for exemption to the Board from strict compliance  with  these  regulations  and  the  Board  upon  examination  may  provide  such exemptions or issue such instructions as may be deemed appropriate.
(2)  The funds registered as venture capital fund under Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture  Capital  Funds)  Regulations,  1996  shall  continue  to  be  regulated  by  the  said regulations till the existing fund or scheme managed by the fund is wound up  and such funds shall not launch any new scheme after notification of these regulations: Provided that the existing fund or scheme shall not increase the targeted corpus of the fund or scheme after notification of these regulations. Provided  further  that  venture  capital  funds  may  seek  re-registration  under  these regulations  subject  to  approval  of  two-thirds  of  their  investors  by  value  of  their investment.
(3)  Any entity referred to in sub-regulation (1) who fails to make an application for grant of a certificate within the period specified therein shall cease to carry on any activity as an Alternative Investment Fund.
(4)  Alternative Investment  Funds shall seek registration in one of the categories mentioned hereunder  and  in  case  of  Category  I  Alternative  Investment  Fund,  in  one  of  the  sub- categories thereof: (a)   “Category I Alternative  Investment Fund” which invests in start-up or early stage ventures or social ventures or SMEs or infrastructure or other sectors or areas which the  government  or  regulators  consider  as  socially  or  economically  desirable  and shall include venture capital funds, SME Funds, social venture funds, infrastructure funds and such other Alternative  Investment Funds as may be specified; are generally perceived to have positive spillover effects on economy and for which the  Board  or  Government  of  India  or  other  regulators  in  India  might  consider providing  incentives  or  concessions  shall  be  included  and  such  funds  which  are formed as trusts or companies shall be construed as “venture capital company” or “venture capital fund” as specified under sub-section (23FB) of Section 10 of the Income Tax Act, 1961. (b) “Category II Alternative  Investment Fund” which does not fall in Category I and III and which does not undertake leverage or borrowing other than to meet day-to- day operational requirements and as permitted in these regulations; as private equity funds or debt funds for which no specific incentives or concessions are given by the government or any other Regulator shall be included. (c)  “Category  III  Alternative    Investment  Fund”  which  employs  diverse  or  complex trading strategies and may employ leverage including through investment in listed or unlisted derivatives. as hedge funds or funds which trade with a view to make short term returns or such other  funds  which  are  open  ended  and  for  which  no  specific  incentives  or concessions are given by the government or any other Regulator shall be included.
(5)  An application for grant of certificate shall be made for any of the categories as specified in sub-regulation (4) in Form A as specified in the First Schedule to these regulations and shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as specified in  Part A of the Second Schedule to these regulations to be paid in the manner specified in Part B thereof.
(6)  The Board shall take into account requirements as specified in these regulations for the purpose of considering grant of registration.
(7)  Without  prejudice  to  the  powers  of  the  Board  to  take  any  action  under  the  Act  or regulations  made  there  under,  the  certificate  of  registration  shall  be  valid  till  the Alternative Investment Fund is wound up.
(8)  The Board may, in the interest of the investors, issue directions with regard to the transfer of records, documents or securities or disposal of investments relating to its activities as an Alternative Investment Fund.
(9)  The Board may, in order to protect the interests of investors, appoint any person to take charge of records, documents, securities and for this purpose, also  determine the terms and conditions of such an appointment. Eligibility Criteria.
4. For  the  purpose  of  the  grant  of  certificate  to  an  applicant,  the  Board  shall  consider  the following conditions for eligibility, namely, — (a) the memorandum of association in case of a company; or the Trust Deed in case of a Trust; or the Partnership deed in case of a limited liability partnership permits it to carry on the activity of an Alternative Investment Fund; (b) the applicant is prohibited by its memorandum and articles of association or trust deed or partnership deed from making an invitation to the public to subscribe to its securities; (c) in case the applicant is a Trust, the instrument of trust is in the form of a deed and has been duly registered under the provisions of the Registration Act, 1908; (d) in  case  the  applicant  is  a  limited  liability  partnership,  the  partnership  is  duly incorporated and the partnership deed has been duly filed with the Registrar under the provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008; (e) in case the applicant is a body corporate, it is set up or established under the laws of the Central or State Legislature and is permitted to carry on the activities of an Alternative Investment Fund; (f) the applicant, Sponsor and Manager are fit and proper persons based on the criteria specified  in  Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; (g) 12[The key investment team of the Manager of Alternative Investment Fund has - (i) adequate experience, with at least one key personnel having not less than five years of experience in advising or managing pools of capital or  in  fund  or  asset  or  wealth  or  portfolio  management  or  in  the business of buying, selling and dealing of securities or other financial assets; and (ii)  at least one key personnel with professional qualification in finance, accountancy,  business  management,  commerce,  economics,  capital market or banking from  a university or an institution recognized by the  Central  Government  or  any  State  Government  or  a  foreign university,  or  a  CFA  charter  from  the  CFA  institute  or  any  other qualification as may be specified by the Board: Provided  that  the  requirements  of  experience  and  professional qualification as specified in regulation 4(g)(i) and 4(g)(ii) may also be fulfilled by the same key personnel.] (h) the  Manager  or  Sponsor  has  the  necessary  infrastructure  and  manpower  to effectively discharge its activities; (i) the  applicant  has  clearly  described  at  the  time  of  registration  the  investment objective, the targeted investors,  proposed corpus, investment style or strategy and proposed tenure of the fund or scheme; (j)  whether  the  applicant  or  any  entity  established  by  the  Sponsor  or  Manager  has earlier been refused registration by the Board. Furnishing of Information.
5.  (1)  The  Board  may  require  the  applicant  to  furnish  any  such  further  information  or clarification regarding the Sponsor or Manager or nature of the fund or fund management activities or any such matter connected thereto to consider the application for grant of a certificate or after registration thereon.
(2)  If  required  by  the  Board,  the  applicant  or  Sponsor  or  Manager  shall  appear  before  the Board for personal representation. Procedure for grant of Certificate.
6.  (1)  The  Board  may  grant  certificate  under  any  specific  category  of  Alternative  Investment Fund,  if  it  is  satisfied  that  the  applicant  fulfills  the  requirements  as  specified  in  these regulations.
(2)  The Board shall, on receipt of the registration fee as specified in the Second Schedule, grant a certificate of registration in Form B.
(3)  The registration may be granted with such conditions as may be deemed appropriate by the Board.
13[(4) The Board may, on being satisfied that the applicant complies with the provisions of regulation 4 except those of clause (c) or clause (d) thereof, as the case may be, grant an in- principle approval to the applicant: Provided that the applicant shall comply with clause (c) or clause (d) of regulation 4, as the case may be, within six months from the date of grant of in-principle approval and upon compliance  with  the  same,  the  Board  may  grant  a  certificate  of  registration  under  sub- regulation (2).
(5) An Alternative Investment Fund that has been  granted in-principle approval may accept commitments from investors but shall not accept any monies till it is granted registration under sub-regulation (2) of this regulation.] Conditions of certificate.
7.  (1)  The  certificate  granted  under  regulation  6  shall,  inter-alia,  be  subject  to  the  following conditions:- (a) the Alternative Investment Fund shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations; (b) the  Alternative  Investment  Fund  shall  not  carry  on  any  other  activity  other  than permitted activities; (c) the Alternative Investment Fund shall forthwith inform the Board in writing, if any information or particulars previously submitted to the Board are found to be false or misleading  in  any material particular or if there is  any material  change in  the information already submitted.
(2) An  Alternative  Investment  Fund  which  has  been  granted  registration  under  a  particular category cannot change its category subsequent to registration, except with the approval of the Board. Procedure where registration is refused.
8.  (1)  After considering an application made under regulation 3, if the Board is of the opinion that  a  certificate  should  not  be  granted,  it  may  reject  the  application  after  giving  the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(2)  The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the applicant within thirty days.
(3)  Where an application for a certificate is rejected by the Board, the applicant shall cease to carry on any activity as an Alternative Investment Fund: Provided  that  nothing  contained  in  these  regulations  shall  affect  the  liability  of  the applicant towards its existing investors under law or agreement. CHAPTER III INVESTMENT CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS Investment Strategy.
9.  (1)  All Alternative Investment Funds shall state investment strategy, investment purpose and its investment methodology in its placement memorandum to the investors.
(2)  Any material alteration to the fund strategy shall be made with the consent of atleast two- thirds of unit holders by value of their investment in the Alternative Investment Fund. Investment in Alternative Investment Fund.
10. Investment in all categories of Alternative Investment Funds shall be subject to the following conditions:- (a)  the  Alternative  Investment  Fund  may  raise  funds  from  any  investor  whether  Indian, foreign or non-resident Indians by way of issue of units; (b)  each scheme of the Alternative  Investment Fund shall have corpus of atleast twenty crore rupees; (c)  the Alternative Investment Fund shall not accept from an investor, an investment of value less than one crore rupees: Provided  that  in  case  of  investors  who  are  employees  or  directors  of  the  Alternative Investment  Fund  or  employees  or  directors  of  the  Manager,  the  minimum  value  of investment shall be twenty five lakh rupees. (d)  the  Manager  or  Sponsor  shall  have  a  continuing  interest  in  the  Alternative  Investment Fund of not less than two and half percent of the corpus or five crore rupees, whichever is lower, in  the form  of investment in  the Alternative  Investment  Fund and such interest shall not be through the waiver of management fees: Provided that for Category III Alternative Investment Fund, the continuing interest shall be not less than five percent of the corpus or ten crore rupees, whichever is lower. (e)  the  Manager  or  Sponsor  shall  disclose  their  investment  in  the  Alternative    Investment Fund to the investors of the Alternative  Investment Fund; (f)  no  scheme  of  the  Alternative    Investment  Fund  shall  have  more  than  one  thousand investors14[:] 15[Provided  that  the  provisions  of  the  16[Companies  Act,  2013]  shall  apply  to  the Alternative Investment Fund, if it is formed as a company.] (g)  the fund shall not solicit or collect funds except by way of private placement. Placement Memorandum.
11. (1)Alternative  Investment  Fund  shall  raise  funds  through  private  placement  by  issue  of information memorandum or placement memorandum, by whatever name called.
(2) Such  information  or  placement  memorandum  as  specified  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall contain all material information about the Alternative  Investment Fund and the Manager, background of key investment team of the Manager, targeted investors, fees and all other expenses proposed to be charged, tenure of the Alternative  Investment Fund or scheme, conditions  or  limits  on  redemption,  investment  strategy,  risk  management  tools  and parameters employed, key service providers, conflict of interest and procedures to identify and  address  them,  disciplinary  history,  the  terms  and  conditions  on  which  the  Manager offers investment services, its affiliations with other intermediaries, manner of winding up of the Alternative  Investment Fund or the scheme and such other information as may be necessary  for  the  investor  to  take  an  informed  decision  on  whether  to  invest  in  the Alternative  Investment Fund. symbol “;” to the substitution, it read as “Companies Act, 1956”. Schemes.
12. (1) The  Alternative  Investment  Fund  may  launch  schemes  subject  to  filing  of  placement memorandum with the Board.
(2) Such  placement  memorandum  shall  be  filed  with  the  Board  atleast  thirty  days  prior  to launch of scheme along with the fees as specified in the Second Schedule: Provided that payment of scheme fees shall not apply in case of launch of first scheme by the Alternative Investment Fund.
(3) The Board may communicate its comments, if any, to the applicant prior to launch of the scheme and  the applicant shall incorporate the comments in placement memorandum prior to launch of scheme. Tenure.
13. (1) Category I Alternative Investment Fund and Category II Alternative Investment Fund shall be  close  ended  and  the  tenure  of  fund  or  scheme  shall  be  determined  at  the  time  of application subject to sub-regulation (2) of this regulation.
(2) Category I and II Alternative Investment Fund or schemes launched by such funds shall have a minimum tenure of three years.
(3) Category III Alternative Investment Fund may be open ended or close ended.
(4) Extension of the tenure of the close ended Alternative Investment Fund may be permitted up  to  two  years  subject  to  approval  of  two-thirds  of  the  unit  holders  by  value  of  their investment in the Alternative Investment Fund.
(5) In  the  absence  of  consent  of  unit  holders,  the  Alternative  Investment  Fund  shall  fully liquidate within one year following expiration of the fund tenure or extended tenure. Listing.
14. (1) Units of close ended Alternative Investment Fund may be listed on stock exchange subject to a minimum tradable lot of one crore rupees.
(2) Listing of Alternative Investment Fund units shall be permitted only after final close of the fund or scheme. General Investment Conditions.
15. (1) Investments  by  all  categories  of  Alternative  Investment  Funds  shall  be  subject  to  the following conditions:- (a)  Alternative  Investment  Fund  may  invest  in  securities  of  companies  incorporated outside India subject to such conditions or guidelines that may be stipulated or issued by the Reserve Bank of India and the Board from time to time; (b) Co-investment in an investee company by a Manager or Sponsor shall not be on terms more favourable than those offered to the Alternative  Investment Fund; (c)  Category I and II Alternative Investment Funds shall invest not more than twenty five percent of the 17[investable funds] in one Investee Company; (d) Category III Alternative Investment Fund shall invest not more than ten percent of the 18[investable funds] in one Investee Company (e)  Alternative Investment Fund shall not invest in associates except with the approval of seventy  five  percent  of  investors  by  value  of  their  investment  in  the  Alternative Investment Fund; (f)  Un-invested portion of the 19[investable funds] may be invested in liquid mutual funds or bank deposits or other liquid assets of higher quality such as Treasury bills, CBLOs, Commercial Papers, Certificates of Deposits, etc. till deployment of funds as per the investment objective; (g) Alternative Investment Fund may act as Nominated Investor as specified in clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 106N of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009. 20[(h)  Investment  by  Category  I  and  Category  II  Alternative  Investment  Funds  in  the shares  of  entities  listed  on  institutional  trading  platform  after  the  commencement  of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) word “corpus” 18 Ibid 19 Ibid (Fourth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2015  shall  be  deemed  to  be  investment  in  ‘unlisted securities’ for the purpose of these regulations.]
(2) Notwithstanding the conditions as specified in sub-regulation (1), the Board may specify additional  requirements  or  criteria  for  Alternative  Investment  Funds  or  for  a  specific category thereof. Conditions for Category I Alternative Investment Funds.
16. (1) The following investment conditions shall apply to all Category I Alternative  Investment Funds:- (a)  Category I Alternative Investment Fund shall invest in investee companies or venture capital undertaking or in special purpose vehicles or in limited liability partnerships or in units of other Alternative Investment Funds as specified in these regulations; (b) Fund of Category I Alternative  Investment Funds may invest in units of Category I Alternative  Investment Funds of same sub-category: Provided that they shall only invest in such units and shall not invest in units of other Fund of Funds: Provided  further that the investment  conditions  as specified in  sub-regulations (2),
(3), (4) or (5) shall not be applicable to investments by such funds. (c)  Category I Alternative  Investment Funds shall not borrow funds directly or indirectly or engage in any leverage except for meeting temporary funding requirements for not more than thirty days, on not more than four occasions in a year and not more than ten percent of the 21[investable funds].
(2) The  following  investment  conditions  shall  apply  to  venture  capital  funds  in  addition  to conditions laid down in sub-regulation (1):- word “corpus” (a)  at least two-thirds of the 22[investable funds] shall be invested in unlisted equity shares or equity linked instruments of a venture capital undertaking or in companies listed or proposed to be listed on a SME exchange or SME segment of an exchange; (b) not more than one-third  of the 23[investable funds] shall be invested in: (i) subscription to initial public offer of a venture capital undertaking whose shares are proposed to be listed; (ii) debt or debt instrument of a venture capital undertaking in which the fund has already  made  an  investment  by  way  of  equity  or  contribution  towards partnership interest; (iii)  preferential  allotment,  including  through  qualified  institutional  placement,  of equity shares or equity linked instruments of a listed company subject to lock in period of one year; (iv) the equity shares or equity linked instruments of a financially weak company or a sick industrial company whose shares are listed. company” means a company, which has at the end of the previous financial year accumulated losses, which has resulted in erosion of more than fifty percent but less than hundred percent of its net worth as at the beginning of the previous financial year. (v) special  purpose  vehicles  which  are  created  by  the  fund  for  the  purpose  of facilitating or promoting investment in accordance with these regulations: Provided that the investment conditions and restrictions stipulated in clause (a) and clause  (b)  of  sub-regulation  (2)  shall  be  achieved  by  the  fund  by  the  end  of  its  life cycle. (c)  such  funds  may  enter  into  an  agreement  with  merchant  banker  to  subscribe  to  the unsubscribed portion of the issue or to receive or deliver securities in the process of 22 Ibid. word “corpus” market  making  under  Chapter  XB  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 and the provisions of clause (a) and clause (b) of sub-regulation (2) shall not apply in case of acquisition or sale of securities pursuant to such subscription or market making. (d) such  funds  shall  be  exempt  from  regulation  3  and  3A  of  Securities  and  Exchange Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations,  1992  in  respect  of investment in companies listed on SME Exchange or SME segment of an exchange pursuant to due diligence of such companies subject to the following conditions: (i) the fund shall disclose any acquisition or dealing in securities pursuant to such due-diligence, within two working days of such acquisition or dealing, to the stock exchanges where the investee company is listed; (ii) such  investment  shall  be  locked  in  for  a  period  of  one  year  from  the  date  of investment.
(3) The following conditions shall apply to SME Funds in addition to conditions laid down in sub-regulation (1):- (a)  atleast  seventy  five  percent  of  the  24[investable  funds]  shall  be  invested  in  unlisted securities or partnership interest of venture capital undertakings or investee companies which are SMEs or in companies listed or proposed to be listed on SME exchange or SME segment of an exchange; (b) such  funds  may  enter  into  an  agreement  with  merchant  banker  to  subscribe  to  the unsubscribed portion of the issue or to receive or deliver securities in the process of market  making  under  Chapter  XB  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009; (c)  such  funds  shall  be  exempt  from  regulation  3  and  3A  of  Securities  and  Exchange Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations,  1992  in  respect  of investment in companies listed on SME Exchange or SME segment of an exchange pursuant to due diligence of such companies subject to the following conditions: word “corpus” (i) the fund shall disclose any acquisition or dealing in securities pursuant to such due-diligence, within two working days of such acquisition or dealing, to the stock exchanges where the investee company is listed; (ii) such  investment  shall  be  locked  in  for  a  period  of  one  year  from  the  date  of investment.
(4) The following conditions shall apply to social venture funds in addition to the conditions laid down in sub-regulation (1):- (a)  atleast  seventy  five  percent  of  the  25[investable  funds]  shall  be  invested  in  unlisted securities or partnership interest of social ventures. (b) such funds may accept grants, provided that such utilization of such  grants shall be restricted to clause (a)26[:] 27[Provided that the amount of grant that may be accepted by the fund from any person shall not be less than twenty-five lakh rupees: Provided further that no profits or gains shall accrue to the provider of such grants.] (c)  such funds may give grants to social ventures, provided that appropriate disclosure is made in the placement memorandum. (d) such funds may accept muted returns for their investors  i.e. they may accept returns on  their  investments  which  may  be  lower  than  prevailing  returns  for  similar investments.
(5) The following conditions shall apply to Infrastructure  Funds in addition to conditions laid down in sub-regulation (1):- (a)  atleast  seventy  five  percent  of  the  28[investable  funds]  shall  be  invested  in  unlisted securities  or  units  or  partnership  interest  of  venture  capital  undertaking  or  investee word “corpus” symbol “.”. word “corpus” companies or special purpose vehicles, which are engaged in or formed for the purpose of operating, developing or holding infrastructure projects; (b) notwithstanding clause (a) of sub-regulation (5), such funds may also invest in listed securitized debt instruments or listed debt securities of investee companies or special purpose  vehicles,  which  are  engaged  in  or  formed  for  the  purpose  of  operating, developing or holding infrastructure projects. Conditions for Category II Alternative Investment Funds.
17. The following investment conditions shall apply to Category II Alternative  Investment Funds:- (a)  Category  II  Alternative    Investment  Funds  shall  invest  primarily  in  unlisted  investee companies or in  units of other Alternative  Investment  Funds as may be specified in  the placement memorandum; (b) Fund of Category  II Alternative  Investment Funds may invest in units of Category I or Category II Alternative  Investment Funds: Provided that they shall only invest in such units and shall not invest in units of other Fund of Funds. (c)  Category II Alternative Investment Funds may not borrow funds directly or indirectly and shall not engage in leverage except for meeting temporary funding requirements for not more than  thirty days, not more than four occasions in a year and not more than ten percent of the 29[investable funds]; (d) Notwithstanding  clause    (c),  Category  II  Alternative  Investment  Funds  may  engage  in hedging, subject to guidelines as specified by the Board from time to time; (e)  Category  II  Alternative  Investment  Funds  may  enter  into  an  agreement  with  merchant banker  to  subscribe  to  the  unsubscribed  portion  of  the  issue  or  to  receive  or  deliver securities  in  the  process  of  market  making  under  Chapter  XB  of  the  Securities  and Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,
2009. word “corpus” (f)  Category  II  Alternative  Investment  Funds  shall  be  exempt from  regulation  3  and  3A  of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 in  respect  of  investment  in  companies  listed  on  SME  Exchange  or  SME  segment  of  an exchange pursuant to due diligence of such companies subject to the following conditions: (i)  the fund shall disclose any acquisition or dealing in securities pursuant to such due- diligence,  within  two  working  days  of  such  acquisition  or  dealing,  to  the  stock exchanges where the investee company is listed; (ii) such investment shall be locked in for a period of one year from the date of investment. Conditions for Category III Alternative Investment Funds.
18. The  following  investment  conditions  shall  apply  to  Category  III  Alternative    Investment Funds:- (a)  Category III Alternative  Investment Funds may invest in securities of listed or unlisted investee companies or derivatives or complex or structured products; 30[(aa) Category III Alternative Investment Funds may deal in goods received in delivery against physical settlement of commodity derivatives;] (b) 31[Fund of Category III] Alternative  Investment Funds may invest in units of Category I or Category II Alternative  Investment Funds: Provided that they invest solely in such units and shall not invest in units of other Fund of Funds. (c)  Category III Alternative  Investment Funds may engage in leverage or borrow subject to consent from the investors in the fund and subject to a maximum limit, as may be specified by the Board: Provided that such funds shall disclose information regarding the overall level of leverage employed, the level of leverage arising from borrowing of cash, the level of leverage arising from position held in derivatives or in any complex product and the main source of leverage words and symbol “Fund of Category II” in  their  fund  to  the  investors  and  to  the  Board  periodically,  as  may  be  specified  by  the Board. (d) Category III Alternative Investment Funds shall be regulated through issuance of directions regarding  areas  such  as  operational  standards,  conduct  of  business  rules,  prudential requirements, restrictions on redemption and conflict of interest as may be specified by the Board. Other Alternative Investment Fund.
19. The Board may lay down framework for Alternative Investment Funds other than the Funds falling in the categories specified in these regulations. 32[CHAPTER III -A ANGEL FUNDS Definitions.
19A. For the purposes of this Chapter, unless the context  otherwise requires, the terms  defined herein  shall  bear  the  meanings  assigned  to  them  below,  and  their  cognate  expressions  and variations shall be construed accordingly,-
(1)  “angel  fund”  means  a  sub-category  of  Venture  Capital  Fund  under  Category  I-  Alternative Investment  Fund  that  raises  funds  from  angel  investors  and  invests  in  accordance  with  the provisions of this Chapter.
(2) "angel investor" means any person who proposes to invest in an angel fund and satisfies one of the following conditions, namely, (a) an individual investor who has net tangible assets of at least two crore rupees excluding value of his principal residence, and who: (i) has early stage investment experience, or (ii) has experience as a serial entrepreneur, or (iii) is a senior management professional with at least ten years of experience; mean  prior  experience  in  investing  in  start-up  or  emerging  or  early-stage  ventures  and 'serial entrepreneur' shall mean a person who has promoted or co-promoted more than one start-up venture. (b) a body corporate with a net worth of at least ten crore rupees; or (c) an Alternative Investment Fund registered under these regulations or a Venture Capital Fund registered under the SEBI (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996.
(3) "company with family connection" means: a. if the angel investor is an individual, i. any company which is promoted by such an individual or his relative; or ii. any company where the individual or his relative is a director; or iii.  any  company where  the person or his  relative has control, or shares  or voting rights which entitle them to fifteen percent or more of the shares or voting rights in the company. 33[ sub-section 77 of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013]. assigned to it under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011. b. if the angel investor is a body corporate, i. any company which is a subsidiary or a holding company of the investor; or ii. any company  which is  part of the same  group or under the same management of the investor; or to the substitution, it read as “section 6 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)”. management"  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  it  under  regulation  23  of  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009. iii. any company where the body corporate or its directors/partners have control, or shares or voting rights which entitle them to fifteen percent or more of the shares or voting rights in the company. assigned to it under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011. Applicability.
19B. (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to angel funds and schemes launched by such angel funds.
(2) All other provisions of these regulations, except clauses (a), (b), (c), (d) and (f) of regulation 10,  regulation  12,  regulation  14,  clauses  (a),  (c)  and  (e)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  15, clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 16 and sub-regulation (2) of regulation 16, and the guidelines and circulars issued under these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires or repugnant to the provisions of this Chapter, shall apply to angel funds, their sponsors and managers and angel investors. Registration of angel funds.
19C. (1) An applicant may apply for registration as an angel fund in accordance with the provisions of Chapter II of these Regulations.
(2) An Alternative Investment Fund already registered under these regulations, which has not made any investments, may apply for conversion of its category into an angel fund under the provisions of this Chapter and the provisions of Chapter II shall apply as they apply to a fresh registration. Investment in angel funds.
19D. (1) Angel funds shall only raise funds by way of issue of units to angel investors.
(2) An angel fund shall have a corpus of at least 34[five] crore rupees.
(3) Angel funds shall accept, up to a maximum period of 35[five] years, an investment of not less than twenty five lakh rupees from an angel investor.
(4) Angel fund shall raise funds through private placement by issue of information memorandum or placement memorandum, by whatever name called. 36[Provided that the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 shall apply to the Angel Fund, if it is formed as a company.] Schemes.
19E. 37[(1) The angel fund may launch schemes subject to filing of a term sheet with the Board, containing material information regarding the scheme, in the format and time period as may be specified by the Board.] 38[***] 39[***] to the substitution, it read as “ten”. to the substitution, it read as “three”. to the substitution, it read as “The angel fund may launch schemes subject to filing of a scheme memorandum at least ten working days prior to launch of the scheme with the Board: Provided that payment of scheme fees shall not apply to schemes launched by angel funds.”. the omission, it read as “(2) Such scheme memorandum shall contain all material information about the investments proposed under such scheme.” the omission, it read as “(3) The Board may communicate its comments, if any, to the applicant prior to launch of the Scheme and the applicant shall incorporate the comments in the scheme memorandum prior to launch of the scheme.”
40[(2)] No scheme of the angel fund shall have more than 41[two hundred] angel investors. 42[Provided that the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 shall apply to the Angel Fund, if it is formed as a company.] Investment by Angel Funds.
19F. (1) Angel funds shall invest 43[***] in venture capital undertakings which: (a)  44[complies  with the  criteria  regarding the  age  of the  venture  capital undertaking/startup issued by the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Government of India vide notification no. G.S.R. 180(E) dated February 17, 2016 or such other policy made in this regard which may be in force;] (b) have a turnover of less than twenty five crore rupees; (c) are not promoted or sponsored by or related to an industrial group whose group turnover exceeds three hundred crore rupees; and body corporates with the same promoter(s)/promoter group, a parent company and its subsidiaries, a group of body corporates in which the same person/ group of persons exercise control, and a group of body corporates comprised of associates/subsidiaries/holding companies. revenue of the industrial group. (d)  are  not  companies  with  family  connection  with  any  of  the  angel  investors  who  are investing in the company.
(2) Investment by an angel fund in any venture capital undertaking shall not be less than 45[twenty five] lakh rupees and shall not exceed 46[ten crores] rupees.
(3) Investment by an angel fund in the venture capital undertaking shall be locked-in for a period of 47[one year].
(4) Angel funds shall not invest in associates.
(5) Angel funds shall not invest more than twenty-five per cent of the total investments under all its schemes in one venture capital undertaking: Provided that the compliance to this sub-regulation shall be ensured by the Angel Fund at the end of its tenure.
48[(6)  An  angel  fund  may  also  invest  in  the  securities  of  companies  incorporated  outside  India subject to such conditions or guidelines that may be stipulated or issued by the Reserve Bank of India and the Board from time to time.] Obligations of Sponsors and Managers of Angel Fund.
19G. (1) The sponsor shall ensure that the angel investors satisfy the conditions specified in sub- regulation (2) of regulation 19A.
(2) The manager or sponsor shall have a continuing interest in the angel fund of not less than two and half percent of the corpus or fifty lakh rupees, whichever is lesser, and such interest shall not be through the waiver of management fees.
(3) The manager of the angel fund shall obtain an undertaking from every angel investor proposing to  make  investment  in  a  venture  capital  undertaking,  confirming  his  approval  for  such  an investment, prior to making such an investment. Prohibition of Listing.
19H. Units of angel funds shall not be listed on any recognised stock exchange.] CHAPTER IV GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES AND TRANSPERANCY General Obligations.
20. (1) All  Alternative  Investment  Funds  shall  review  policies  and  procedures,  and  their implementation, on a regular basis, or as a result of business developments, to ensure their continued appropriateness.
(2) The  Sponsor  or  Manager  of  Alternative  Investment  Fund  shall  appoint  a  custodian registered  with  the  Board  for  safekeeping  of  securities  if  the  corpus  of  the  Alternative Investment Fund is more than five hundred crore rupees: Provided that the Sponsor or Manager of a Category III Alternative Investment Fund shall appoint  such  custodian  irrespective  of  the  size  of  corpus  of  the  Alternative  Investment Fund. 49[Provided  further  that  the  custodian  appointed  by  Category  III  Alternative  Investment Fund  shall  keep  custody  of  securities  and  goods  received  in  delivery  against  physical settlement of commodity derivatives.]
(3) All  Alternative  Investment  Funds  shall  inform  the  Board  in  case  of  any  change  in  the Sponsor, Manager or designated partners or any other material change from the information provided by the Alternative Investment Fund at the time of application for registration.
(4) In case of change in control of the Alternative Investment Fund, Sponsor or Manager, prior approval from the Board shall be taken by the Alternative Investment Fund.
(5) The books of accounts of the Alternative Investment Fund shall be audited annually by a qualified auditor.
50[(6) The Manager shall be responsible for investment decisions of the Alternative Investment Fund: Provided that the Manager may constitute an Investment Committee (by whatever name it may  be  called),  to  approve  investment  decisions  of  the  Alternative  Investment  Fund, subject to the following: (i)  The members of Investment Committee shall be equally responsible as the Manager for investment decisions of the Alternative Investment Fund. (ii)  The Manager and members of the Investment Committee shall jointly and severally ensure that the investments of the Alternative Investment Fund are in  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  these  regulations,  the  terms  of  the placement memorandum, agreement made with the investor, any other fund documents and any other applicable law. (iii)  External  members  whose  names  are  not  disclosed  in  the  placement memorandum  or  agreement  made  with  the  investor  or  any  other  fund documents at the time of on-boarding investors, shall be appointed to the Investment Committee only with the consent of at least seventy five percent of the investors by value of their investment in the Alternative Investment Fund or scheme. (iv)  Any other conditions as specified by the Board from time to time.] Conflict of Interest.
21. (1) The  Sponsor  and  Manager  of  the  Alternative  Investment  Fund  shall  act  in  a  fiduciary capacity towards its investors and shall disclose to the investors, all conflicts of interests as and when they arise or seem likely to arise.
(2) Manager shall establish and implement written policies and procedures to identify, monitor and appropriately mitigate conflicts of interest throughout the scope of business.
(3) Managers and Sponsors of Alternative Investment Fund shall abide by high level principles on avoidance of conflicts of interest with associated persons, as may be specified by the Board from time to time. Transparency.
22.    All Alternative Investment Funds shall ensure transparency and disclosure of information to investors on the following: (a)  financial, risk management, operational, portfolio, and transactional information regarding fund investments shall be disclosed periodically to the investors; (b)  any  fees  ascribed  to  the  Manager  or  Sponsor;  and  any  fees  charged  to  the  Alternative Investment Fund or any investee company by an associate of the Manager or Sponsor shall be disclosed periodically to the investors; (c)any inquiries/ legal actions by legal or regulatory bodies in any jurisdiction, as and when occurred; (d)  any  material  liability  arising  during  the  Alternative  Investment  Fund’s  tenure  shall  be disclosed, as and when occurred; (e)  any  breach  of  a  provision  of  the  placement  memorandum  or  agreement  made  with  the investor or any other fund documents, if any, as and when occurred; (f)  change in control of the Sponsor or Manager or Investee Company. (g) Alternative Investment Fund shall provide at least on an annual basis, within 180 days from the year end, reports to investors including the following information, as may be applicable to the Alternative Investment Fund:- A.  financial information of investee companies. B.  material risks and how they are managed which may include: (i)  concentration risk at fund level; (ii) foreign exchange risk at fund level; (iii)leverage risk at fund and investee company levels; (iv) realization  risk  (i.e.  change  in  exit  environment)  at  fund  and  investee  company levels; (v) strategy  risk  (i.e.  change  in  or  divergence  from  business  strategy)  at  investee company level; (vi) reputation risk at investee company level; (vii)  extra-financial risks, including environmental, social and corporate governance risks, at fund and investee company level. (h) Category  III  Alternative  Investment  Fund  shall  provide  quarterly  reports  to  investors  in respect of clause (g) within 60 days of end of the quarter; (i)  any significant change in the key investment team shall be intimated to all investors; (j)  alternative Investment Funds shall provide, when required by the Board, information for systemic risk purposes (including the identification, analysis and mitigation of systemic risks). Valuation.
23. (1) The Alternative Investment Fund shall provide to its investors, a description of its valuation procedure and of the methodology for valuing assets.
(2) Category I and Category II Alternative Investment Funds shall undertake valuation of their investments, atleast once in every six months, by an independent valuer appointed by the Alternative Investment Fund: Provided that such period may be enhanced to one year on approval of atleast seventy-five percent of the investors by value of their investment in the Alternative Investment Fund.
(3) Category III Alternative  Investment  Funds shall ensure that calculation of the net asset value  (NAV)  is  independent  from  the  fund  management  function  of  the  Alternative Investment Fund and such NAV shall be disclosed to the investors at intervals not longer than a quarter for close ended Funds and at intervals not longer than a month for  open ended funds. Obligation of Manager.
24. The Manager shall be obliged to: (a)  address all investor complaints; (b) provide to the Board any information sought by Board; (c)  maintain all records as may be specified by the Board; (d) take all steps to address conflict of interest as specified in these regulations; (e)  ensure transparency and disclosure as specified in the regulations. Dispute Resolution.
25. An Alternative Investment Fund, by itself or through the Manager or Sponsor, shall lay down procedure  for  resolution  of  disputes  between  the  investors,  Alternative  Investment  Fund, Manager or Sponsor through arbitration or any such mechanism as mutually decided between the investors and the Alternative Investment Fund. Power to call for information.
26. (1) The Board may at any time call for any information from an Alternative Investment Fund or its Manager or Sponsor or trustee or investor with respect to any matter relating to its activity  as  an  Alternative  Investment  Fund  or  for  the  assessment  of  systemic  risk  or prevention of fraud.
(2) Where any information is called for under sub-regulation (1) it shall be furnished within the time specified by the Board. Maintenance of Records.
27. (1) The Manager or Sponsor shall be required to maintain following records describing: (a)  the assets under the scheme/fund; (b)  valuation policies and practices; (c)  investment strategies; (d)  particulars of investors and their contribution; (e)  rationale for investments made.
(2) The records under sub-regulation (1) shall be maintained for a period of five years after the winding up of the fund. Submission of reports to the Board.
28. The Board may at any time call upon the Alternative Investment Fund to file such reports, as the Board may desire, with respect to the activities carried on by the Alternative Investment Fund. Winding up.
29. (1) An Alternative Investment Fund set up as a trust shall be wound up: (a)  when the tenure of the Alternative  Investment Fund or all schemes launched by the Alternative  Investment Fund, as mentioned in the placement memorandum is over; or (b)  if it is the opinion of the trustees or the trustee company, as the case may be, that the Alternative  Investment Fund be wound up in the interests of investors in the units; or (c)  if seventy five percent of the investors by value of their investment in the Alternative Investment  Fund  pass  a  resolution  at  a  meeting  of  unitholders  that  the  Alternative Investment Fund be wound up; or (d)  if the Board so directs in the interests of investors.
(2) An Alternative Investment Fund set up as a limited liability partnership shall be wound up in accordance with the provisions of The Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008: (a)  when the tenure of the Alternative  Investment Fund or all schemes launched by the Alternative  Investment Fund, as mentioned in the placement memorandum is over; or (b)  if seventy five percent of the investors by value of their investment in the Alternative Investment  Fund  pass  a  resolution  at  a  meeting  of  unitholders  that  the  Alternative Investment Fund be wound up; or (c)  if the Board so directs in the interests of investors.
(3) An Alternative Investment Fund set up as a company shall be wound up in accordance with the provisions of the 51[Companies Act, 2013].
(4) An  Alternative  Investment  Fund  set  up  as  a  body  corporate  shall  be  wound  up  in accordance with the provisions of the statute under which it is constituted.
(5) The trustees or trustee company or the  Board of Directors or designated  partners of the Alternative Investment Fund, as the case maybe, shall intimate the Board and investors of the circumstances leading to the winding up of the Alternative Investment Fund.
(6) On and from the date of intimation under sub-regulation (5) of regulation 29, no further investments shall be made on behalf of the Alternative Investment Fund so wound up.
(7) Within one year from the date of intimation under sub-regulation (5) of regulation 29, the assets  shall  be  liquidated,  and  the  proceeds  accruing  to  investors  in  the  Alternative Investment Fund shall be distributed to them after satisfying all liabilities.
(8) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (7) and subject to the conditions, if any, contained in the placement memorandum or contribution agreement or subscription agreement, as the case may be, in specie distribution of assets of the Alternative  Investment Fund, shall be made by the Alternative Investment Fund at any time, including on winding up of the Alternative Investment Fund, as per the preference of investors, after obtaining approval of at least seventy five percent of the investors by value of their investment in the Alternative  Investment Fund.
(9) Upon winding up of the Alternative Investment Fund, the certificate of registration shall be surrendered to the Board. CHAPTER V INSPECTION Board’s right to inspect.
30. The Board may suo motu or upon receipt of information or complaint appoint one or more persons as Inspecting Authority to undertake inspection of the books of account, records and to its substitution, it read as “Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)”. documents  relating  to  an  Alternative  Investment  Fund  for  any  of  the  following  reasons, namely, — (a)  to ensure that the books of account, records and documents are being maintained by the Alternative Investment Fund in the manner specified in these regulations; (b) to inspect complaints received from investors, clients or any other person, on any matter having a bearing on the activities of the Alternative Investment Fund; (c)  to  ascertain  whether the  provisions of the Act  and these regulations  are being  complied with by the Alternative Investment Fund; (d) to  inspect  suo motu the  affairs of  an Alternative  Investment Fund, in  the  interest  of the securities market or in the interest of investors. Notice before inspection.
31. (1) Before ordering an inspection under regulation 30, the Board shall give not less than ten days notice to the Alternative Investment Fund.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1) where the Board is satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may by an order in writing direct  that  the  inspection  of  the  affairs  of  the  Alternative  Investment  Fund  be  taken  up without such notice.
(3) During  the  course  of  an  inspection,  the  Alternative  Investment  Fund  against  whom  the inspection is being carried out shall be bound to discharge its obligations as provided in regulation 32. Obligation of Alternative Investment Fund on inspection.
32. (1) It shall be the duty of every officer of the Alternative Investment Fund in respect of whom an inspection has been ordered under regulation 30 and any other associated person who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of such Alternative Investment Fund including Manager, if any, to produce to the Inspecting Authority such books, accounts and other documents in his custody or control and furnish him with such statements  and  information  as  the  said  Authority  may  require  for  the  purposes  of  the inspection.
(2) It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  officer  of  the  Alternative  Investment  Fund  and  any  other associated person who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of the Alternative Investment Fund including the manager to give to the Inspecting Authority all such assistance and shall extend all such co-operation as may be required in connection  with  the  inspection  and  shall  furnish  such  information  as  sought  by  the Inspecting Authority in connection with the inspection.
(3) The Inspecting Authority shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to examine on oath  and  record  the  statement  of  any  employees,  directors  or  person  responsible  for  or connected with the activities of Alternative Investment Fund or any other associated person having relevant information pertaining to such Alternative Investment Fund.
(4) The  Inspecting  Authority  shall,  for  the  purposes  of  inspection,  have  power  to  obtain authenticated copies of documents, books, accounts of Alternative Investment Fund, from any person having control or custody of such documents, books or accounts. Submission of report to the Board.
33. The Inspecting Authority shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection submit an inspection report to the Board: Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he may submit an interim report. Communication of findings, etc. to the Alternative Investment Fund.
34. The  Board  may  after  consideration  of  the  inspection  report  and  after  giving  reasonable opportunity of hearing to the Alternative Investment Fund or its trustees, directors or manager issue such direction as it deems fit in the interest of securities market or the investors including directions in the nature of :— (a)  requiring an Alternative Investment Fund not to launch new schemes or raise money from investors for a particular period; (b) prohibiting the person concerned  from  disposing  of any of the properties of the fund or scheme acquired in violation of these regulations; (c)  requiring the person connected to dispose of the assets of the fund or scheme in a manner as may be specified in the directions; (d) requiring the person concerned to refund any money or the assets to the concerned investors along with the requisite interest or otherwise, collected under the scheme; (e)  prohibiting the person concerned from operating in the capital market or from accessing the capital market for a specified period. CHAPTER VI PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT Liability for action in case of default.
35. (1) An Alternative Investment Fund which— (a)  contravenes any of the provisions of the Act or these regulations; (b)  fails to furnish any information relating to its activity as an Alternative Investment Fund as required by the Board; (c)  furnishes  to  the  Board  information  which  is  false  or  misleading  in  any  material particular; (d)  does not submit periodic returns or reports as required by the Board; (e)  does  not  co-operate  in  any  enquiry,  inspection  or  investigation  conducted  by  the Board; (f)  fails to resolve the complaints of investors or fails to give a satisfactory reply to the Board in this behalf, shall be dealt with  in  the manner provided under the Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.
(2) Sub-regulation  (1)  shall  not  prejudice  the  powers  of  the  Board  to  issue  directions  or measures under regulation 34 or under sections 11, 11B, 11D, sub-section (3) of section 12 or section 24 or Chapter VIA of the Act or under any other law for the time being in force. 52[CHAPTER VI-A POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
35A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)  Any  exemption  granted  by  the  Board  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  subject  to  the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis.] CHAPTER VII MISCELLANEOUS Power of the Board to issue clarifications.
36. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of circulars or issue separate circular or guidelines or framework for each category of Alternative Investment Funds. Delegation of powers.
37. The powers exercisable by the Board under these regulations shall also be exercisable by any officer of the Board to whom such powers are delegated by the Board by means of an order made under section 19 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. Amendments to other Regulations.
38. The regulations specified in the Third Schedule to these regulations shall be amended in the manner and to the extent stated therein. Repeal and Saving.
39. (1) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996 hereby shall stand repealed.
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal: (a)  Anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken, including suspension or cancellation of certificate of registration, any inquiry or investigation commenced  or  show  cause  notice  issued  under  the  repealed  regulations,  shall  be deemed  to  have  been  done  or  taken  under  the  corresponding  provisions  of    these regulations; (b)  All venture capital funds or schemes launched by such venture capital funds prior to date of notification of these regulations shall continue to be governed by provisions of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Venture  Capital  Funds)  Regulations, 1996 till the fund or Scheme is wound up: Provided that such funds shall not launch any new Scheme after notification of these regulations; (c)  Any application made to the Board under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996 and pending before it shall be deemed to have  been  made  under  the  corresponding  provisions  of  Securities  and  Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012.
3. No  person  shall  conduct,  organise  or  assist  in  organising  any  stock  exchange  or  clearing corporation unless he has obtained recognition from the Board in accordance with the Act, rules and these regulations: Application for recognition
4. Subject to compliance with the provisions of Act, rules and these regulations, an application for recognition as a stock exchange shall be submitted to the Board in Form A as prescribed under rule 3 of the rules and an application for recognition as a clearing corporation shall be submitted to Board in Form A as specified in Schedule - I of these regulations. Fee for application
5.  An applicant seeking recognition as a stock exchange shall pay the application fee in terms of rule 4 of the rules and an applicant seeking recognition as a clearing corporation shall also pay the application fee as payable by a stock exchange. Documents and particulars for application
6.  An application for recognition as a stock exchange or a clearing corporation, as the case may be, shall be accompanied by the copy of the memorandum of association, articles of association, bye-laws and other documents as provided in sections 3 and 4 of the Act, rule 5 of the rules and these regulations. Consideration of grant of recognition
7. (1)  The application under regulation 4 shall be governed by the provisions of the Act, rules and these regulations.
(2)  An  applicant  seeking  recognition  as  a  stock  exchange  or  clearing  corporation  shall comply with the following conditions, namely :— (a) the applicant is a company limited by shares; (b) the applicant is demutualised; (c) the  applicant,  its  directors  and  its  shareholders  who  hold  or  intend  to  hold shares, are fit and proper persons as specified in regulation 20; (d) the  applicant  satisfies  the  requirements  relating  to  the  ownership  and  governance structure specified in these regulations; (e) the applicant satisfies the  networth requirements specified in these regulations; (f)  the  applicant  satisfies  the  requisite  capability  including  its  financial  capacity, functional expertise and infrastructure. ownership and management of the applicant is segregated from the trading rights or clearing rights, as the case may be, in terms of these regulations.
(3)  An applicant seeking recognition as a stock exchange shall, in addition to the conditions as specified in sub-regulations (1) and (2), comply with the following conditions, namely:— (a) the applicant has the necessary infrastructure for the orderly execution of trades; (b) the applicant has an online screen-based trading system; (c) the applicant has an online surveillance capability which monitors positions, prices and volumes in real time so as to ensure market integrity; (d) the applicant  has adequate infrastructure to  list  securities for trading on its platform, wherever applicable; (e) the applicant has necessary capability to have a nationwide network of trading members and has adequate facility to admit and regulate its members; (f)  the applicant has made necessary arrangements to establish connectivity with its trading members and clearing corporation; (g) the applicant has adequate Investor Protection Fund and Investor Services Fund; (h) the  applicant  has  adequate  investor  grievances  redressal  mechanism  and  arbitration mechanism to resolve disputes arising out of trades and its settlement; (i)  the  applicant  has  the  facility  to  disseminate  information  about  trades,  quantities  and quotes in real time to at least two information vending networks which are accessible to investors in the country; (j)  the applicant has adequate systems' capacity supported by a business  continuity plan including a disaster recovery site; (k) the  applicant  has  in  its  employment,  sufficient  number  of  persons  having  adequate professional and other relevant experience; (l)  the business feasibility plan has been appraised by a reputed agency having expertise in securities market; and (m)  any other conditions as may be specified by the Board.
(4)    An  applicant  seeking  recognition  as  a  clearing  corporation  shall,  in  addition  to  the conditions  as  specified  in  sub-regulations  (1)  and  (2),  comply  with  the  following conditions, namely:— (a) the applicant has necessary infrastructure to ensure timely clearing and settlement of trades: 6[Provided that where the applicant is a limited purpose clearing corporation specified under  Chapter  IV-A,  compliance  with  the  requirement  under  this  clause  may  be demonstrated  by  way  of  outsourcing  arrangement(s)  with  a  recognized  clearing corporation(s), subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time;] (b) the applicant has adequate risk management mechanism; (c) the applicant has a settlement procedure including netting, novation and guarantee for settlement of trades in place, which is in accordance with the manner specified by the Board; (d) the applicant has the capacity to establish a fund to guarantee settlement of trades; (e) the applicant has necessary capability to have a wide network of clearing members and has adequate facility to admit and regulate its members; (f)  the applicant has established connectivity with the depositories, clearing banks, stock exchange and clearing members; (g) the applicant has adequate systems' capacity for on-line/real time risk management of trades  cleared  and  settled  and  is  supported  by  a  suitable  business  continuity  plan including a disaster recovery site: 7[Provided that where the applicant is a limited purpose clearing corporation specified under  Chapter  IV-A,  compliance  with  the  requirement  under  this  clause  may  be demonstrated  by  way  of  outsourcing  arrangement(s)  with  a  recognized  clearing corporation(s), subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time;] (h) the  applicant  has  in  its  employment,  sufficient  number  of  persons  having  adequate professional and other relevant experience to the satisfaction of the Board; (i)  the  applicant  has  the  necessary  arrangements  in  place  for  resolving  disputes  and redressal of grievances arising out of clearing and settlement of trades; (j)  the applicant has an agreement with a depository and with a recognised stock exchange in respect of clearing and settlement of the trades; (k) the business feasibility plan has been appraised by a reputed agency having expertise in securities market; and (l)  any other conditions as may be specified by the Board.
(5)  The Board may, on being satisfied with the capability of the applicant to comply with the conditions laid down in this regulation, grant in-principle approval to the applicant which shall be valid for a period of one year. Provided that the  Board  may, upon sufficient  cause shown by the applicant,  extend the validity of in-principle approval for a further period not exceeding six months or any other period as specified by the Board.
(6)   An application for recognition shall be made in the manner as specified under PART –D of Schedule – II of these regulations. Power to make inquiries and call for information
8.    The Board may, before granting recognition to a stock exchange or clearing corporation, make inquiries and require such further information or document to be furnished, as it may deem necessary. Grant of recognition
9.  (1)  The  Board  may,  after  considering  the  application  under  regulation  4  and  on  being satisfied that the applicant has complied with the conditions laid down in regulation 7 and  is  eligible  to  act  as  a  recognised  stock  exchange  or  a  recognised  clearing corporation, as the case may be, grant recognition to the applicant in terms of section 4 of the Act, in the interest of the securities market.
(2)  The recognition granted to a stock exchange under sub-regulation (1) shall be in Form B of the rules.
(3)  The recognition granted to a clearing corporation shall be in Form B of Schedule-I of these regulations.
(4)  The recognised stock exchange and the recognised clearing corporation shall comply with such other conditions, including those with regard to the nature of securities to be dealt with, as may be imposed by the Board from time to time. Period of recognition
10.  (1)  The period of recognition granted to a stock exchange shall be as per rule 6 of the rules.
(2) The recognition granted to a clearing corporation, unless granted on a permanent basis, shall be for such period not less than one year as may be specified by the Board. Regulatory fee
11. (1)   Every recognised stock exchange shall pay the regulatory fee in terms of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory Fee on Stock Exchanges) Regulations, 2006.
(2)  Every recognised clearing corporation shall pay the regulatory fee as the Board may specify. Renewal of recognition
12. (1) The provisions of these regulations, as applicable to the grant of recognition to a stock exchange, shall in addition to rule 7 of the rules also apply in relation to an application for renewal of recognition of a recognised stock exchange.
(2)  A recognised clearing corporation desirous of renewal of recognition shall make an application  to  the  Board  in  Form  A  of  Schedule-I  of  these  regulations  and  such application shall reach the Board atleast three months prior to the date of expiry of the recognition.
(3)  The  provisions  of  these  regulations,  as  applicable  to  the  grant  of  recognition  to  a clearing  corporation,  shall  also  apply  in  relation  to  an  application  for  renewal  of recognition of a recognised clearing corporation.
(4)  An applicant seeking renewal of recognition as a stock exchange shall pay fee in terms of rule 7 of the rules, and an applicant seeking renewal of recognition as a clearing corporation shall also pay fee as payable by a stock exchange.
(5)  The  recognised  stock  exchange  and  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  comply with the applicable conditions specified in sub-regulation (3) and sub-regulation (4) of regulation 7, as the case may be, on a continuous basis. Withdrawal of recognition
13.  The recognition granted to a stock exchange or a clearing corporation may be withdrawn in the manner provided under section 5 of the Act. CHAPTER III NETWORTH OF STOCK EXCHANGE AND CLEARING CORPORATION Net worth requirements
14. (1) Every recognised stock exchange shall have a minimum networth of one hundred crore rupees at all times:
(2)   Every applicant seeking recognition as a clearing corporation under regulation 4 shall have a minimum networth of one hundred crore rupees:
(3)  (a) Every recognized clearing corporation, on commencement of operations, shall, on an ongoing basis, maintain capital including retained earnings and reserves, as may be specified by the Board from time to time, to adequately cover counterparty credit risk, business risk, legal and operational risk. (b) Every recognized clearing corporation shall hold additional capital to cover costs required for orderly wind-down or recovery of operations. (c) Every recognized clearing corporation shall maintain, at all times, a minimum net worth of one hundred crore rupees or capital as determined under regulation 14(3)(a) and 14(3)(b), whichever is higher.
(4)  A recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation shall not distribute profits  in  any  manner  to  its  shareholders  until  the  networth  specified  under sub-regulations (1), (2) and (3), as the case may be, is achieved.
(5)  Every recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall submit an audited networth certificate from the statutory auditor on a yearly basis by the thirtieth day of September of every year for the preceding financial year. means the aggregate value of paid up equity share capital plus free reserves (excluding statutory funds, benefit funds and reserves created out of revaluation) reduced by the investments  in  businesses,  whether  related  or  unrelated,  aggregate  value  of accumulated losses and deferred expenditure not written off, including miscellaneous expenses not written off. corporation' means the aggregate value of its liquid assets calculated in the manner as specified by the Board from time to time. OWNERSHIP OF STOCK EXCHANGES AND CLEARING CORPORATIONS CHAPTER IV Definitions
15. For the purposes of this Chapter:
(1)  "banking  company"  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  it  in  clause  (c)  of section 5 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949);
(2)  "insurance company" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in sub-section (8) of section 2 of the Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938);
(3)  "person resident in India" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (v) of section 2 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999);
(4)  "person resident outside India" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (w) of section 2 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999).
(5)  “public  financial  institution”  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  it  in sub-section (72) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 General conditions
16.  (1)   Save as otherwise provided in these regulations, the shareholding or voting rights of any person in a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation shall not exceed the limits specified in this Chapter at any point of time.
(2)  The shareholding as specified in this Chapter shall include any instrument owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, that provides for entitlement to equity or rights over equity at any future date. Shareholding in a recognised stock exchange
17. (1) The public holding in a recognised stock exchange shall not be less than fifty one per cent of the paid up equity share capital of that recognised stock exchange.
(2)  No person resident in India shall at any time, directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, acquire or hold more than five per cent of the paid up equity share capital in a recognised stock exchange: Provided that,— (a) a stock exchange; (b) a depository; (c) a banking company; (d) an insurance company; and (e) a public financial institution, may acquire or hold, either directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, upto fifteen per cent of the paid up equity share capital of a recognised stock exchange.
(3)  No person resident outside India, directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, shall acquire or hold more than five per cent of the paid up equity share capital in a recognised stock exchange Provided that,- (a) a foreign stock exchange; (b) a foreign depository; (c) a foreign banking company; (d) a foreign insurance company; (e) a foreign commodity derivatives exchange; and (f) a  bilateral  or  multilateral  financial  institution  approved  by  the  Central Government, may acquire or hold, either directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, upto fifteen per cent of the paid up equity share capital of a recognised stock exchange. to (f) shall mean persons recognised/ incorporated outside India.
(4)  Subject to the limits as otherwise prescribed by the Central Government from time to time, the combined holding of all persons resident outside India in the paid up equity share capital of a recognised stock exchange shall not exceed, at any time, forty-nine per cent of its total paid up equity share capital
(5)  No clearing corporation shall hold any right, stake or interest, of whatsoever nature, in any recognised stock exchange. Shareholding in a recognised clearing corporation
18. (1) The capital structure in a recognized clearing corporation shall be such that atleast fifty one percent of its paid up equity share capital shall always be held by one or more recognized stock exchange(s): Provided  that  no  recognised  stock  exchange  shall,  directly  or  indirectly,  either individually  or  together  with  persons  acting  in  concert,  acquire  or  hold  more  than fifteen  per  cent  of  the  paid  up  equity  share  capital  in  more  than  one  recognised clearing corporation.
(2)  No person resident in India, except a recognised stock exchange as permitted in sub- regulation (1), shall at any time, directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, acquire or hold more than five per cent. of the paid up equity share capital in a recognised clearing corporation: Provided that,— (a) a depository; (b) a banking company; (c) an insurance company; and (d) a public financial institution, may acquire or hold, either directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, upto fifteen per cent of the paid up equity share capital of a recognised clearing corporation.
(3)    No  person  resident  outside  India  shall,  directly  or  indirectly,  either  individually  or together with persons acting in concert, acquire or hold more than five per cent of the paid up equity share capital in a recognised clearing corporation. Provided that,- (a) a foreign stock exchange; (b) a foreign depository; (c) a foreign banking company; (d) a foreign insurance company; (e) a foreign commodity derivatives exchange; and (f)  a  bilateral  or  multilateral  financial  institution  approved  by  the  Central Government, may acquire or hold, either directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, upto fifteen per cent of the paid up equity share capital of a recognized clearing corporation. (f) shall mean persons recognised/ incorporated outside India.
(4)   Subject to the limits as otherwise prescribed by the Central Government from time to time, the combined holding of all persons resident outside India in the paid up equity share  capital  of  a  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  not  exceed,  at  any  time, forty-nine per cent of its total paid up equity share capital. Eligibility for acquiring or holding shares
19. (1) No person shall, directly or indirectly, acquire or hold any equity shares or voting rights of a recognised stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation unless he is a fit and proper person: Provided that the onus shall be on the recognised stock exchange/ recognised clearing corporation to ensure that all its shareholders are fit and proper persons: Provided further that such a requirement to ensure that all its shareholders are fit and proper  persons  shall  not  be  applicable  to  a  listed  recognized  stock  exchange  for shareholding of a person who directly or indirectly, acquires or holds less than two percent equity shares or voting rights of such listed recognized stock exchange.
(2)  Any  person  who  acquires  equity  shares  or  voting  rights,  in  a  recognised  stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation, directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, that entitles the person(s) so acquiring to exercise  any  voting  rights  in  the  range  of  two  percent  to  five  per  cent,  shall  seek approval of the Board within fifteen days of such acquisition.
(3)  A person eligible to acquire or hold more than five per cent of the paid up equity share capital under sub-regulation (2) and (3) of regulation 17 and sub-regulation (2) and (3) of regulation  18 may acquire or hold more than  five per cent of the paid up equity share capital of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation only if he has obtained prior approval of the Board.
(4)  The application for seeking approval in terms of sub-regulation (2) or sub-regulation
(3) of this regulation shall be made to the Board in the manner specified at PART –F of Schedule  –  II  of  these  regulations  through  the  concerned  stock  exchange  /  clearing corporation.
(5)  The stock exchange / clearing corporation shall verify the declarations/ undertakings given by the shareholders under sub-regulation (4) and forward the application along with its recommendation for approval to the Board.
(6)  If approval under sub-regulation (2) is not granted by the Board to any person, such person shall forthwith divest his entire shareholding in the recognised stock exchange / recognised clearing corporation.
(7)  Any  person  holding  two  per  cent.  or  more  of  the  paid  up  equity  share  capital  in  a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation, as the case may be, shall file a declaration within fifteen days from the end of every financial year to the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation, as the case may be, that he complies with the fit and proper criteria provided in these regulations. Monitoring of shareholding limits
19A.The  recognised  stock  exchange  /  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  put  in  place  a monitoring  mechanism  as  specified  in  Part  G  of  Schedule  –  II  of  these  regulations  to ensure compliance with the shareholding conditions specified in these regulations at all times. Requirement and criteria of fit and proper
20. (1) The recognised stock exchange/ recognised clearing corporation shall ensure that all its directors and key management personnel are fit and proper persons at all times.
(2) For the purposes of these regulations, a person shall be deemed to be a fit and proper person if— (a)  such person has a general reputation and record of fairness and integrity, including but not limited to— (i)  financial integrity; (ii)  good reputation and character; and (iii) honesty; (b)  such person has not incurred any of the following disqualifications— (i)  the  person  or  any  of  its  whole  time  directors  or  managing  partners,  has  been convicted by a court for any offence involving moral turpitude or any economic offence or any offence against the securities laws; (ii)  an order for winding up has been passed against the person; (iii) the person, or any of its whole time directors or  managing partners, has been declared insolvent and has not been discharged; (iv) an order, restraining, prohibiting or debarring the person or any of its whole time directors or managing partners, from dealing in securities or from accessing the securities  market,  has  been  passed  by  the  Board  or  any  other  regulatory authority and a period of three years from the date of the expiry of the period specified in the order has not elapsed; (v)  any  other  order  against  the  person,  or  any  of  its  whole  time  directors  or managing  partners,  which  has  a  bearing  on  the  securities  market,  has  been passed  by  the  Board  or  any  other  regulatory  authority,  and  a  period  of  three years from the date of the order has not elapsed; (vi) the Board has initiated recovery proceedings under the SEBI Act, 1992 and are pending; (vii) the  person  has  been  found  to  be  of  unsound  mind  by  a  court  of  competent jurisdiction and the finding is in force; (viii) the person is financially not sound or has been categorized as a  willful defaulter; and (ix)  any other disqualification as specified by the Board.
(3) If  any  question  arises  on  the  decision  of  a  recognised  stock  exchange  or  recognized clearing  corporation  as  to  whether  a  person  is  a  fit  and  proper  person,  the  Board's decision on such question shall be final. Disclosure of shareholding
21.  (1)  Without  prejudice  to  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  rules  and  these  regulations,  the recognised stock exchange(s) and the recognised clearing corporation(s) shall disclose to  the  Board,  in  the  format  specified  by  the  Board,  their  shareholding  pattern  on  a quarterly basis within fifteen days from the end of each quarter, including therein the following: — (a) the names of the ten largest shareholders along with the number and percentage of shares held by them; (b) the names of the shareholders falling under regulations 17 and 18 who had acquired shares in that quarter.
(2) A recognised stock exchange and a recognised clearing corporation shall monitor and ensure compliance with this Chapter at all times. Record keeping
22.    In addition to the requirements under other laws in force, a recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall maintain and preserve all the books, registers, other documents and records relating to the issue or transfer of its securities for a period of not less than eight years. LIMITED PURPOSE CLEARING CORPORATION 8[CHAPTER IV - A Applicability
22A.  (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall  only  apply to the recognized limited purpose clearing corporations. All provisions under these regulations, except regulation 18, regulation 31 and
(2) regulation 38, shall apply to the recognized limited purpose clearing corporation. Shareholding in a recognised limited purpose clearing corporation
22B. (1) No person resident in India shall at any time, directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, acquire or hold more than five per cent. of the paid-up equity share capital in a limited purpose clearing corporation: Provided that, — (a)   a depository; (b)   a banking company; (c)   an insurance company; (d)   a recognised stock exchange; (e)   a recognised clearing corporation; (f) (g)   an asset management company of a mutual fund registered with the Board; and (h)    an asset management company of a pension fund registered with the Pension Fund a public financial institution; Regulatory and Development Authority; may acquire or hold,  either directly or indirectly,  either individually or together  with persons acting in concert, up to fifteen per cent of the paid- up equity share capital of a recognised clearing corporation.
(2) No person resident outside India shall, directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, acquire or hold more than five per cent of the paid-up equity share capital in a recognised clearing corporation. Provided that, — (a)   a foreign stock exchange; (b)   a foreign depository; (c)   a foreign banking company; (d)   a foreign insurance company; (e)   a foreign commodity derivatives exchange; and (f)   a  bilateral  or  multilateral  financial  institution  approved  by  the  Central Government, may acquire or hold,  either directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, up to fifteen per cent of the paid-up equity share capital of a recognized clearing corporation. (f) shall mean persons recognised/incorporated outside India.
(3) Subject to the limits as otherwise prescribed by the Central Government from time to time, the combined holding of all persons resident outside India in the paid-up equity share capital of a recognised clearing corporation shall not exceed, at any time, forty-nine per cent of its total paid up equity share capital.
(4) The shareholding of persons setting up the limited purpose clearing corporation shall be locked-in for a period of five years from the date of grant of recognition by the Board. Composition of the governing board of recognised limited purpose clearing corporation
22C. The representative of the issuers of debt securities may be appointed  on the governing board  of  the  recognized  limited  purpose  clearing  corporation  on  a  rotational  basis  and such a director shall be deemed to be a shareholder director. securities during a financial year shall be one amongst the top three issuers, which are public sector undertakings, based on their issue size in the preceding financial year. Contribution to the Settlement Guarantee Fund
22D.  (1)  The  contribution  to  the  Fund  as  specified  in  regulation  37  shall  be  made  by  the recognized limited purpose clearing corporation, the clearing members and issuers of the debt securities, in the manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time.
(2) Any  shortfall  in  the  Fund,  shall  be  replenished  by  the  recognized  limited purpose clearing corporation to the threshold level as may be specified by the Board from time to time. Utilization of profits and investments
22E.  (1)  The  utilization  of  profits  and  investments  by  recognized  limited  purpose  clearing corporations shall be in accordance with the norms specified by the Board: Provided that for the first five years from the date of grant of recognition by the board, there shall be no distribution of dividend to the shareholders and the profits of recognized limited  purpose  clearing  corporation  shall  be  transferred  to  the  Fund  specified  in regulation 37.
(2)    The  limited  purpose  clearing  corporation  shall  not  carry  on  any  activity  whether involving deployment of funds or otherwise without the prior approval of the Board: Provided that  the prior approval  of the  Board shall not  be required in case of  treasury investments  if  such  investments  are  as  per  the  investment  policy  approved  by  the governing board of limited purpose clearing corporation. Arbitration Mechanism
22F. The recognized limited purpose clearing corporation shall have arbitration mechanism for settlement of disputes or claims arising out of transactions cleared and settled by it.] CHAPTER V GOVERNANCE OF STOCK EXCHANGES AND CLEARING CORPORATIONS Composition of the governing board
23.  (1)  The  governing  board  of  every  recognised  stock  exchange  and  recognised  clearing corporation shall include: (a)  shareholder directors; (b) public interest directors; and, (c)  managing director.
(2)  Subject  to  the  prior  approval  of  the  Board,  the  chairperson  shall  be  elected  by  the governing board from amongst the public interest directors.
(3)  The  number  of  public  interest  directors  shall  not  be  less  than  the  number  of shareholder  directors  on  the  governing  board  of  a  recognised  stock  exchange  and recognized Clearing Corporation.
(4)  The managing director shall be included in the category of shareholder directors.
(5)  Any employee of a recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation may be appointed on the governing board in addition  to the managing director and such director shall be deemed to be a shareholder director.
(6)  No trading member or clearing member or their associates and agents, irrespective of the stock exchange / clearing corporation of which they are members, shall be on the governing board of any recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation.
(7)  For the purposes of sub-regulation (6) above, a  person  who  is  a  director  in  an entity,  that  itself  is  a  trading  member  or clearing  member  or  has  associate(s)  as trading  member(s)  or  clearing member(s)  shall be deemed to be a clearing member or trading member: Provided a  person shall  not  be  deemed  to  be  clearing  member  and  /  or trading member  or  their  associate  for  the  purpose  of  sub-regulation  (6),  if  he/she  is  on  the board of a public financial institution or bank which is in public sector, or which either has no identifiable ultimate promoter, or the   ultimate   promoter   is    in    public sector   or   has   well   diversified shareholding , and such Public Financial Institution or Bank or its associate is a clearing member and / or trading member: Provided further that the independent directors of the associates of Public Financial Institution  or  Bank  in  public    sector,  who    are    clearing    member    and/or    trading member  and  where  the  majority  shareholding  is  that  of  such  public  Financial institution or bank in  the   public    sector,  shall  not   be   deemed   to   be  a  clearing member  and  /  or trading member for the purpose of sub-regulation (6).
(8)  The appointment of director shall be subject to the fulfillment of other requirements and satisfaction of the Board.
(9)  A recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation, shall monitor and ensure  the  compliance  of  sub-regulation  (6)  on  continuous  basis,  to  ensure  that directors  appointed,  on  their  governing  board,  do  not  get  associated  with  trading member or clearing member after approval of appointment.
(10) The  number  of  public  interest  directors  shall  not  be  less  than  the  number  of shareholder directors to constitute the quorum for the meeting of the governing board.
(11) The voting on a resolution in the meeting of the governing board shall be valid only when  the  number  of  public  interest  directors  that  have  cast  their  vote  on  such resolution is equal to more than the number of shareholder directors who have cast their vote on such resolution.
(12) The  casting  vote  in  the  meetings  of  the  governing  board  of  a  recognised  stock exchange  or  a  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  be  with  the  chairperson  of  the governing board.
(13) No foreign portfolio investor shall have any representation in the governing board of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation. Conditions of appointment of directors
24. (1) The appointment and re-appointment of all shareholder directors on the governing board of every recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall be with the prior approval of the Board.
(2)  The  public  interest  directors  on  the  governing  board  of  the  recognised  stock exchange(s) and the recognised clearing corporation(s) shall be nominated by the Board.
(3)  Public interest directors shall be nominated for a term of three years, extendable by another term of three years, subject to performance review in the manner as may be specified by the Board: Provided that post the expiry of term(s) at the recognized stock exchange or the recognized clearing corporation, a public interest director may be nominated for a further term of three years in other recognized clearing corporation or recognized stock exchange, or a depository, only after a cooling-off period of one year: Provided further that a person may be nominated as a public interest director for a maximum of three terms across recognized stock exchanges / recognized clearing corporations / depositories, subject to a maximum age limit of seventy five years.
(4)  A  public  interest  directors  on  the  board  of  a  recognized  stock  exchange  or  a recognized  clearing  corporation  shall  not  act  simultaneously  as  director  on  the board of its subsidiary or on the board of any other recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation or depository or on the board of subsidiary of such other recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation or depository.
(5)  A  public  interest  director  on  the  board  of  a  recognized  stock  exchange  or  a recognized  clearing  corporation  shall  keep  its  governing  board  apprised  of  any conflict  of  interest,  which  may  arise  as  a  result  of  the  public  interest  director providing services, either directly or indirectly, to any company listed or traded on that recognized stock exchange, to any trading member or clearing member or their associates and agents
(6)  No  public  interest  director  shall  become  a  shareholder  director  unless  there  is  a cooling-off period of three years after ceasing to be a public interest director.
(7)  No  public  interest  director  on  the  board  of  a  recognized  stock  exchange  or  a recognized clearing corporation, shall become a director on the board of subsidiary of that recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation, as the case may  be,  unless  there  is  a  cooling-off  period  of  three  years  after  ceasing  to  be  a public interest director.
(8)  A  public  interest  director  on  the  board  of  a  recognized  stock  exchange  or  a recognized clearing corporation shall not act simultaneously as a member on more than  five  committees  of  that  recognized  stock  exchange  or  a  recognized  clearing corporation.
(9)  Public  interest  directors  shall  be  remunerated  only  by  way  of  sitting  fees  as admissible to independent directors in the Companies Act, 2013.
(10) If  any  issue  arises  as  to  whether  an  assignment  or  position  of  a  public  interest director is in conflict with his role, the Board's decision shall be final.
(11) The  application  for  appointment  of  Directors  shall  be  made  in  the  manner  as specified under PART –H of Schedule – II of these regulations. Appointment of managing director
25. (1) The appointment, renewal of appointment and termination of service of the managing director of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation shall be subject to the prior approval of the Board.
(2)  Every recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall, subject to the guidelines issued by the Board from time to time, determine the qualification, manner of appointment,  terms  and  conditions  of  appointment  and  other  procedural  formalities associated with the selection/ appointment of the managing director.
(3)  The appointment of the managing director shall be for a term not exceeding five years: Provided that post the completion of the first term, the recognized stock exchange or the recognized clearing corporation shall conduct the appointment process for appointment of the Managing Director afresh: Provided  further  that  a  person  may  be  appointed  as  the  Managing  Director  by  the recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation for a maximum of two terms not exceeding five years each, subject to a maximum age limit of sixty five years.
(4)  The  Managing  director  of  a  recognised  stock  exchange  or  a  recognised  clearing corporation shall not— (a) be a shareholder or an associate of a shareholder of a recognised stock  exchange or  recognised  clearing  corporation  or  shareholder  of  an  associate  of  a  recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation, as the case may be; (b) be a trading member or a clearing member or his associate and agent or shareholder of a trading member or clearing member or shareholder of an associate and agent of a trading member or a clearing member; or (c) hold any position concurrently in the subsidiary of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation or in any other entity associated with a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation: Provided  that  the  Managing  Director  of  a  recognised  stock  exchange  may  be appointed on the governing board, but not as managing director, of the subsidiary of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation.
(5)  The  Managing  Director  shall  be  liable  for  removal  or  termination  of  services  by  the governing  board  of  the  recognised  stock  exchange  or  recognised  clearing  corporation with the prior approval of the Board for failure to give effect to the directions, guidelines and other orders issued by the Board or the rules, the articles of association, bye-laws and regulations of the recognised stock exchange or the recognised clearing corporation.
(6)  The Board may suo motu remove or terminate the appointment of the managing director if deemed fit in the interest of securities market: Provided  that  no  managing  director  shall  be  removed  unless  he  has  been  given  a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(7)  The  conditions  specified  under  this  regulation  for  appointment  of  directors  shall  be applicable to  a person holding position as  managing  director in  a stock exchange or a clearing corporation on the date of commencement of these regulations. determined post the completion of the existing term and the prior term(s) completed by a  managing  director  on  the  governing  board  of  a  recognized  stock  exchange  or  a recognized  clearing  corporation  shall  also  be  considered  while  determining  the eligibility. Code of Conduct for directors and key management personnel
26. (1) Every director of a recognised stock exchange and a recognised clearing corporation shall abide by the Code  of Conduct  specified under Part- A of Schedule-  II of these regulations.
(2) Every director and key management personnel of a recognised stock exchange and a recognised clearing corporation shall abide by the Code of Ethics specified under Part- B of Schedule- II of these regulations.
(3) Every director and key management personnel of a recognised stock exchange and a recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  be  a  fit  and  proper  person  as  described  in regulation 20.
(4) The Board may, for any failure by the directors to abide by these regulations or the Code of Conduct or Code of Ethics or in case of any conflict of interest, either upon a reference from the recognised stock exchange or the recognised clearing corporation or suo motu, take appropriate action including removal or termination of the appointment of any director, after providing him a reasonable opportunity of being heard. Compensation and tenure of key management personnel
27.  (1)  A  recognised  stock  exchange  or  a  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  constitute  a Nomination  and  Remuneration  Committee  comprising  a  majority  of  public  interest directors and chaired by a public interest director.
(2)  The  Nomination  and  Remuneration  Committee  shall  determine  the  compensation  of key management personnel in terms of a compensation policy.
(3)  The  compensation  policy  shall  be  in  accordance  with  the  norms  for  compensation policy specified under PART – I of Schedule – II of these regulations.
(4)  The compensation payable to the managing director shall be as approved by the Board and the terms and conditions of the compensation of the managing director shall not be changed without prior approval of the Board.
(5)  The  compensation  given  to  the  key  management  personnel  shall  be  disclosed  in  the report  of  the  recognised  stock  exchange  or  recognised  clearing  corporation  under section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013.
(6)  The  report  under  sub-regulation  (5)  shall  comprise  of  ratio  of  compensation  paid  to each  key  management  personnel,  vis-a-vis.  median  of  compensation  paid  to  all employees of the recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation.
(7)  The tenure of a key management personnel, other than a director, shall be for a fixed period, as may be decided by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee. posting as key management personnel in a regulatory department, which shall be for a fixed period Segregation of regulatory departments
28.    The recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall segregate its regulatory  departments  from  other  departments  in  the  manner  specified  in  Part  -  C  of Schedule - II of these regulations. Statutory committees
29. (1) Every recognised stock exchange / recognized clearing corporation shall constitute the committees as per sub-regulation (2) and sub-regulation (3).
(2)  Functional committee, comprising of: (a) 9[Member and Core Settlement Guarantee Fund committee;] (b) 10[*] grievance redressal committee; and (c) Nomination and remuneration committee.
(3)  Oversight committees, comprising of: (a) Standing committee on technology; (b) Advisory committee; (c) Regulatory oversight committee; and (d) Risk management committee.
(4)  The composition, quorum and functions of the committees under sub-regulation (2) and sub-regulation (3) shall be in the manner as specified by the Board from time to time. Appointment of compliance officer
30. (1) Every recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall appoint a compliance officer who shall be responsible for monitoring the compliance of the Act, the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, rules, regulations, or directions issued thereunder and for the redressal of investors' grievances.
(2) The compliance officer shall immediately and independently, report to the Board any non- compliance of any provision stated in sub-regulation (1) observed by him. Contribution to the Settlement Guarantee Fund
31.  (1)  The  contribution  to  the  Fund  as  specified  in  regulation  37  shall  be  made  by  the recognised  stock  exchange,  the  recognised  clearing  corporation  and  the  clearing members, in the manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time.
(2)  In case of shortfall in the Fund, the recognised clearing corporation and the recognised stock exchange shall replenish the Fund to the threshold level as may be specified by the Board from time to time. Transfer of penalties
32.  Penalties levied by recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall be credited to its Investor Protection Fund or the Fund as specified in regulation 37, as the case may be. Disclosure and corporate governance norms
33.   (1) The disclosure requirements and corporate governance norms as specified for listed companies  shall  mutatis  mutandis  apply  to  a  recognised  stock  exchange  and  a recognised clearing corporation.
(2)  The  governing  board  of  a  recognised  stock  exchange  or  a  recognised  clearing corporation  shall  confirm  compliance  of  sub-regulation  (1)  in  writing  on  half  yearly basis.
(3)  Recognised  stock  exchange  and  a  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  disclose resources committed towards strengthening regulatory functions and towards ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements applicable to the recognised stock exchange or  recognised  clearing  corporation,  as  the  case  may  be,  backed  by  an  activity  based accounting in the report under section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013.
(4) The fees and charges levied by a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation  shall  be  placed  for  review  before  the  Oversight  Committee  of  such recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation. CHAPTER VI GENERAL OBLIGATIONS Clearing and settlement of trades
34. Every recognised stock exchange shall, with effect from the date specified by the Board in this  behalf,  use  the  services  of  recognised  clearing  corporation(s)  for  clearing  and settlement of its trades. Agreement between stock exchange and clearing corporation
35. (1) Subject to provisions of sub-regulation (2), a recognised stock exchange shall avail the service  of  a  recognised  clearing  corporation  pursuant  to  an  agreement  in  writing between them stipulating their rights and obligations, the conditions for admission of securities for clearing and settlement, risk management measures, charges for clearing and settlement and other incidental and consequential matters. 11[Provided that in case a recognised stock exchange enters into an arrangement with more  than  one  recognised  clearing  corporation,  it  shall  enter  into  a  multipartite agreement to  ensure interoperability among the clearing corporations.] in  writing  with  such  recognised  clearing  corporations
(2) The recognised stock exchange shall extend its arbitration mechanism for settlement of disputes  or  claims  arising  out  of  clearing  and  settlement  of  trades  executed  on  such stock exchange. Admission of securities for clearing and settlement
36.  (1) A recognised clearing corporation shall seek approval of the Board before extending its services  to  any  segment  of  a  recognised  stock  exchange  and  before  admitting  any securities for clearing and settlement.
(2) A recognized stock exchange shall not introduce any new segment without the prior approval of the Board. Fund to guarantee settlement of trades
37. (1) Every recognised clearing corporation shall establish and maintain a Fund by whatever name  called,  for  each  segment,  to  guarantee  the  settlement  of  trades  executed  in respective segment of a recognised stock exchange: 12[***]
(2) In the event of a clearing member failing to honour his settlement obligations, the Fund shall be utilized to complete the settlement.
(3) The corpus of the Fund shall be adequate to meet the settlement obligations arising on account of failure of clearing member(s).
(4) The sufficiency of the corpus of the Fund shall be tested by way of periodic stress tests, in the manner specified by the Board.
(5) The  utilization  of  the  Fund  shall  be  in  accordance  with  the  norms  specified  by  the Board. Utilization of profits and investments
38.  (1)The utilization of profits and investments by recognised clearing corporations shall be in accordance with the norms specified by the Board.
(2) The recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation shall not carry on any  activity  whether  involving  deployment  of  funds  or  otherwise  without  prior approval of the Board: Provided  that  prior  approval  of  the  Board  shall  not  be  required  in  case  of  treasury investments  if  such  investments  are  as  per  the  investment  policy  approved  by  the governing board of recognized stock exchange or recognized clearing corporation; Provided  further,  that  the  recognised  stock  exchange  and  recognised  clearing corporation  may  engage  in  activities  whether  involving  deployment  of  funds  or otherwise  that  are  unrelated  or  not  incidental  to  its  activity  as  a  stock  exchange  or clearing corporation, as the case may be, 13[*] through a separate legal entity and subject to approval of the Board. Equal, fair and transparent access
39. (1) The recognised clearing corporation shall lay down a policy framework for ensuring that  there  is  no  discrimination  while  rendering  clearing  and  settlement  services  in settlement  of  trades  executed  on  shareholder  stock  exchange(s)  and  executed  on non-shareholder stock exchange(s). (2)The framework under sub-regulation (1) shall be made available on the website of the clearing  corporation  and  shall  provide  the  basis  on  which  access  to  clearing  and settlement services of the clearing corporation has been provided to a shareholder stock exchange(s) along-with the manner in which the said requirements should be complied by  a  non-shareholder  stock  exchange(s)  to  obtain  access  to  clearing  and  settlement services. (3)The recognised clearing corporation and recognised stock exchange shall ensure equal, unrestricted,  transparent  and  fair  access  to  all  persons  without  any  bias  towards  its associates and related entities. (4)If any issue arises in rendering non-discriminatory access to services of a recognized clearing corporation, the Board's decision shall be final. Maintenance of books of accounts and records
40. (1) Every recognised stock exchange shall maintain and preserve the books of account and documents as per rule 14 of the rules.
(2) Subject to the provisions of any other law for the time being in force, every recognised clearing  corporation  shall  maintain  and  preserve  the  following  books  of  account  and documents for a minimum period of eight years, namely:- (a)  Minute books of the meetings of: (i) governing board; (ii) any committees of the governing board; (b)  Record  of  clearing  members  showing  their  full  names,  addresses  and  details  of bank and depository accounts for settlement purposes; (c)  Transaction records; (d)  Record of security deposits; (e)  Margin deposits book; (f)  Client margin collection details; (g)  Ledgers; (h)  Journals; (i)  Cash book; (j)  Bank account statement; (k)  Such  other  books  of  accounts  and  documents  as  may  be  specified  by  the  Board from time to time. Submission of annual financial statements and returns
41.  (1) Every recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall furnish to the Board its annual financial statements and returns as per rule 17 and 17A of the rules.
(2) The records as per sub-regulation (1) with respect to the preceding financial year shall be furnished to the Board by the thirtieth of September of every year. Bye-laws and rules of stock exchanges and clearing corporation
42.  (1) A recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall, with the prior approval of the Board, make bye-laws for the regulation of contracts and clearing and settlement, as the case may be, as per section 9 of the Act and these regulations.
(2) No  memorandum  of  association,  articles  of  association  or  any  other  constitution document, in so far as they relate to matters specified in section 3 of the Act or under these regulations and bye- laws of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation, shall be amended except with prior approval of the Board.
(3) The Bye-laws of the clearing corporation and procedure for submitting amendments to Articles/Rules/Bye-laws [*]14, etc., of a recognised stock exchange/ recognized clearing corporation for approval of the Board shall be made in the manner as specified under PART – E of Schedule – II of these regulations. Settlement and netting
43.  (1) The payment and settlement in respect of a transaction in a recognized stock exchange and recognized clearing corporation shall be determined in accordance with the netting or gross procedure as specified in the bye-laws of such recognized stock exchange and recognized clearing corporation, with the prior approval of the Board
(2) Payment and settlement in respect of a transaction between parties referred to in sub- regulation  (1),  effected  under  the  bye-laws  of  a  recognized  stock  exchange  or recognized clearing corporation, shall be final, irrevocable and binding on such parties.
(3) When a settlement has become final and irrevocable, the right of the recognized stock exchange or the recognized clearing corporation, as the case may be, to appropriate any collaterals or deposits or margins contributed by the trading member, clearing member or client towards its settlement or other obligations in accordance with the bye-laws of the  recognised  stock  exchange  or  recognized  clearing  corporation  shall  take  priority over any other liability of or claim against the said trading member, clearing member or client, as the case may be. gross or net, referred to in this regulation is final and irrevocable as soon as the money, securities  or  other  transactions  payable  as  a  result  of  such  settlement  is  determined, whether or not such money, securities or other transactions is actually paid. 15[Obligation of Clearing Corporation in Commodity Derivatives
43A.  Every  recognized  Clearing  Corporation  providing  clearing  and  settlement  services  for commodity  derivatives  shall  ensure  guarantee  for  settlement  of  trades  including good delivery. goods that is in proper form to transfer title and is of the quality and quantity as per contract specifications of the concerned exchange.] Right of Clearing Corporation
44.  The  right  of  a  recognised  clearing  corporation(s)  to  recover  the  dues  from  its  clearing members,  arising  from  the  discharge  of  their  clearing  and  settlement  functions,  from  the collaterals,  deposits  and  the  assets  of  the  clearing  members,  shall  have  priority  over  any other liability of or claim against the clearing members. CHAPTER VII LISTING OF SECURITIES Listing
45. (1) Subject to the provisions of the applicable laws in force, a recognised stock exchange may apply for listing of its securities on any recognised stock exchange, other than itself and its associated stock exchange, if,— Regulations, 2019, w.r.e.f. 03-10-2018. (a)  it is compliant with the provisions of these regulations particularly those relating to ownership and governance; (b)  it  has  completed  three  years  of  continuous  trading  operations  immediately preceding the date of application of listing; and (c)  it has obtained approval of the Board: Provided the Board may specify such conditions as it may deem fit in the interest of the securities market including those in relation to transfer of shares held by any person.
(2) A recognised stock exchange shall not list any securities of its associates.
(3) The  securities  of  a  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  not  be  listed  on  any  stock exchange. Dematerialization
46. Securities of a recognised stock exchange and a recognised clearing corporation shall be in dematerialised form. CHAPTER VIII INSPECTION, ENQUIRIES AND ENFORCEMENT Power to call for information
47. The Board may from time to time call for any information, documents or records from the recognised stock exchange or the recognised clearing corporation, or their governing board or any shareholder thereof. Power of inspection
48. (1) The Board may at any time undertake inspection, conduct inquiries and audit of any recognised  stock  exchange  or  recognised  clearing  corporation,  any  associate  of  such exchange or clearing corporation, any shareholder of such stock exchange or clearing corporation or any associate and agent of such shareholder.
(2)  Where  an  inspection  under  sub-regulation  (1)  is  undertaken  by  the  Board,  such recognised  stock  exchange  or  recognised  clearing  corporation  or  shareholder  or associate  and every manager, director, managing director,  chairperson or  officer and other  employee  of  such  recognised  stock  exchange,  recognised  clearing  corporation, shareholder or associate shall cooperate with the Board. Directions by the Board
49.  Without  prejudice  to  the  exercise  of  its  powers  under  the  provisions  of  the  Act  or  the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  and  rules  and  regulations  made thereunder,  the  Board  may,  either  suo  motu  or  on  receipt  of  any  information  or  during pendency  of  any  inspection,  inquiry  or  investigation  or  on  completion  thereof,  in  the interest of public or trade or investors or the securities market, issue such directions as it deems fit, including but not limited to any or all of the following:— (a)  directing a person holding equity shares or rights over equity shares in a recognised stock  exchange  or  recognised  clearing  corporation  in  contravention  of  these regulations to divest his holding, in such manner as may be provided in the direction; (b)  directing transfer of any proceeds or securities to the Investor Protection Fund of a recognised stock exchange or Settlement Guarantee Fund of a recognised clearing corporation; (c)  debarring any recognised stock exchange or  recognised clearing corporation, any shareholder of such recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation, or any associate and agent of such shareholder, or any transferee of shares from such shareholder, directors and key management personnel of recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation from accessing the securities market or dealing in securities for such period as may be determined by the Board. 16[CHAPTER VIII-A POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
49A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new  products, processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  in  live  environment  of  regulatory  sandbox  in  the securities markets.
(2)  Any  exemption  granted  by  the  Board  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  subject  to  the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. testing  environment  where  new  products,  processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  may  be deployed on a limited set  of eligible customers for a specified period of time,  for furthering innovation  in  the  securities  market,  subject  to  such  conditions  as  may  be  specified  by  the Board.] CHAPTER IX MISCELLANEOUS Power to remove difficulties
50.  In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation or application of the provisions of these  regulations,  the  Board  shall  have  the  power  to  issue  directions  through  guidance notes or circulars. Power to specify procedures and issue clarifications
51. For the purposes of implementation of these regulations and matters incidental thereto, the Board  may  specify  norms,  procedures,  processes,  manners  or  guidelines  as  specified  in these  regulations,  by  way  of  circulars  to  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  and  recognised clearing corporation(s). Repeal and savings
52.  (1)  On  and  from  the  commencement  of  these  regulations,  the  Securities  Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2012 and the following circulars, shall stand rescinded: (a)  Circular  No.  CIR/MRD/DSA/33/2012,  dated  December  13,  2012  -  Procedural norms  on  Recognitions,  Ownership  and  Governance  for  Stock  Exchanges  and Clearing Corporations; (b) Circular  No.  SEBI/HO/MRD/DSA/CIR/P/2016/30  dated  January  22,  2016  - Amendment to SEBI Circular CIR/MRD/DSA/33/2012 dated December 13, 2012 pursuant to amendment in Regulation 2(1)(b) of SECC Regulations, 2012.
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken or purported to have been  taken  or  contemplated  under  the  repealed  regulations  and  circulars  before  the commencement  of  these  regulations  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  done  or  taken  or commenced or contemplated under the corresponding provisions of these regulations.
3. (1) Any group or association of intermediaries, which is desirous of being recognized as a Self Regulatory Organization, may form a company registered under section 25 of the Companies Act, 1956 and such company may make an application to the Board for grant of certificate of recognition as a Self Regulatory Organization: 5[Provided that for the purpose of this sub-regulation a distributor shall be deemed to be an intermediary]: 6[Provided further that the Board may, in case of distributors engaged by asset management companies of mutual funds, grant certificate of recognition to only one group or association making an application under this regulation.]
(2) Every application made by such company under sub-regulation (1) shall contain such particulars as may be specified and shall be accompanied by a copy of the governing norms
18.11.2013 of  Self  Regulatory  Organization  and  also  a  copy  of  the  memorandum  and  articles  of association relating in general to the constitution of the Self Regulatory Organization and in particular, to - Board  of  Directors  of  Self  Regulatory  Organization,  its  constitution  and (a) powers of management and the manner in which its business would be transacted; the powers and duties of the office bearers of Self Regulatory Organization; (b) the admission into the Self Regulatory Organization of members, agents, (c) their qualifications for membership, and the exclusion, suspension, expulsion and readmission of members therefrom or thereinto;
(3)  Every application under sub-regulation (1) shall be signed on behalf of the applicant under  authority  of  its  Board  of  Directors  by  its  Chairman,  Managing  Director,  Chief Executive Officer or whole time director.
(4)  Every application under sub-regulation (1) shall be made to the Board in Form A of the first schedule and shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee, as specified in Part A of the second schedule, to be paid in the manner specified in Part B thereof. Eligibility criteria.
4. The Board shall not consider an application for grant of a certificate under regulation 3 unless the applicant satisfies the following conditions, namely:- (a) (b) (c) (d) the applicant is a company which has been granted license under section 25 of Companies Act, 1956; the applicant has, in its memorandum of association, specified admission of members and discharging the functions of Self Regulatory Organization as one of its main objects; the applicant has a minimum networth of one crore rupees; the  applicant  has  adequate  infrastructure,  to  enable  it  to  discharge  its functions  as  a  Self  Regulatory  Organization  in  accordance  with  the provisions of the Act and these regulations; (e) (f) (g) (h) 7[(i) the  applicant  referred  to  in  regulation  3  and  its  directors  have  the professional  competence,  financial  soundness  and  general  reputation  of fairness and integrity to the satisfaction of the Board; neither the applicant, nor any director of the applicant is involved in any legal proceeding connected with the securities market, which may have an adverse impact on the interests of the investors; neither  the  applicant,  nor  any  director  has  at  any  time  in  the  past  been convicted  of  any  offence  involving  moral  turpitude  or  any  economic offence; the applicant has, in its employment, persons having adequate professional and other relevant experience to the satisfaction of the Board; the applicant is a fit and proper person based on the criteria specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008;] (j)   grant of certificate to the applicant is in the interest of investors and the securities market. 8[Grant of in-principle approval.
4A. Where the applicant is not in compliance with the provisions of clauses (c), (d) or (h) of regulation 4, on the date of submission of the application under regulation 3, the Board may grant an in-principle approval to the applicant, which shall be valid for a period of one hundred  and  eighty  days,  within  which  the  applicant  shall  ensure  compliance  with  all provisions of regulation 4: Provided that the Board may, upon sufficient cause shown by the applicant, extend the validity of the in-principle approval for a further period not exceeding ninety days.] Prior to its substitution, clause (i) read as under: “(i) the applicant, in all other respects, is a fit and proper person for the grant of a certificate;” Grant of recognition as a Self Regulatory Organization.
5. (1) If the Board is satisfied, after making such inquiry as may be necessary in this behalf and after obtaining such further information, if any, as it may require, - (a) (b) (c) that  the  articles  and  governing  norms  of  the  applicant  applying  for recognition are in conformity with such conditions as may be specified by the Board; that the applicant is willing to comply with any other conditions which the Board  may  impose  for  the  purpose  of  carrying  out  the  objects  of  these Regulations; and, that it would be in the interest of the trade and also in the public interest to grant recognition to the applicant as a Self Regulatory Organization; the  Board  may  grant  certificate  of  recognition  to  the  applicant  as  a  Self  Regulatory Organization in Form B1 of the First Schedule subject to such terms and conditions as the Board may deem fit and appropriate.
(2) The conditions which the Board may specify under sub-regulation (1) for the grant of recognition to the applicant as a Self Regulatory Organization may include, among other matters, conditions relating to, - (i)  the qualification for membership of the Self Regulatory Organization; (ii)  the representation of the Board in the Board of Directors of the Self Regulatory Organization by such number of directors not exceeding four as the Board may nominate in this behalf; and (iii)  the maintenance of accounts of members and their audit by chartered accountants whenever such audit is required by the Board.
(3) No articles of Self Regulatory Organization relating to any of the matters specified in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 3 shall be amended except with the prior written approval of the Board. Application to conform to the requirements
6. 9[Subject to the provisions of regulation 4A, any application] for a certificate, which is not complete in all respects or does not conform to the requirements of these regulations and particularly regulations 3, 4 and 5 or instructions specified in Form A shall be rejected by the Board: Provided that, before rejecting any such application, the Board shall give an opportunity to the applicant to remove such objections as may be indicated by the Board, within 30 days of the date of receipt of relevant communication, from the Board: Provided further that the Board may, on sufficient cause being shown, extend the time for removal of objections by such further time, not exceeding 30 days as the Board may consider fit, to enable the applicant to remove such objections. Furnishing of information, clarification and personal representation (1)The  Board  may  require  the  applicant  to  furnish  such  further  information  or
7. clarification as it may consider necessary for the purpose of processing of the application.
(2) The Board, if it so desires, may require the applicant to appear before it through an authorized  representative  for  personal  representation  in  connection  with  the  grant  of  a certificate of recognition. Conditions of certificate and validity period.
8. (1)  The  certificate  granted  under  regulation  5  shall  be,  subject  to  the  following conditions, namely: - (a)  the  applicant  shall  comply  with  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  applicable regulations and guidelines, directions or circulars issued by the Board from time to time; (b)  any information or particulars furnished to the Board by the applicant shall not be false or misleading in any material respect; (c) where any material information or particulars furnished to the Board by the applicant,  in  or  in  connection  with  the  application  for  recognition,  has undergone change subsequent to its furnishing, the applicant shall forthwith inform the fact to the Board in writing;
(2) The certificate of recognition shall be valid for a period of five years. Renewal of certificate.
9. (1) Any Self Regulatory Organization desirous of obtaining renewal of the recognition granted to it, shall make to the Board an application for the renewal of the certificate of recognition in Form A of the First Schedule.
(2)  Such application shall be made not less than three months before expiry of the period of validity of the certificate, specified in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 8.
(3) The application for renewal made under sub-regulation (1), - (a) shall be accompanied by a renewal fee as specified in the second schedule; and, (b) as  far  as  may  be,  shall  be  dealt  with  in  the  same  manner  as  if  it  were  an application for the grant of a fresh certificate under regulation 3.
(4)  If the Board is satisfied that the certificate of recognition already granted to the Self Regulatory  Organization  under  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  5  or  the  certificate previously renewed under this regulation deserves to be renewed, the Board may renew such certificate in Form B2 of the First Schedule subject to such terms and conditions as it may deem fit and appropriate. Procedure where certificate is not granted
10. (1) If, after considering an application made under regulation 3 or regulation 9, as the case may be, the Board is of the opinion that a certificate should not be granted or renewed, it  may,  after  giving  the  applicant  a  reasonable  opportunity  of  being  heard,  reject  the application within a period of thirty days of receipt of such application complete in all respects or within thirty days of receipt of further information or clarification sought under regulation 7.
(2) If any application is rejected under sub-regulation (1), the fact shall be communicated to the applicant forthwith, stating the grounds for such rejection. Effect of refusal to grant certificate
11. (1) An applicant referred to in sub regulation (1) of regulation 3 whose application for the grant of a certificate has been rejected under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 10 shall not undertake any activity as Self Regulatory Organization.
(2) A Self Regulatory Organization referred to in regulation 9 whose application for the renewal of certificate has been rejected by the Board shall on and from the date of the receiptof the communication from the Board under sub regulation (2) of regulation 10 cease to carry on any activity as Self Regulatory Organization.
(3) If the Board is satisfied that it is in the interests of investors to do so, it may permit the Self Regulatory Organization referred to under sub-regulation (2) to complete the functions or obligations already initiated or undertaken by it during the pendency of the application or during the period of validity of the certificate.
(4) The Board may in order to protect the interests of investors, issue directions with regard to  the  transfer  of  records,  documents  or  reports  relating  to  the  functions  of  the  Self Regulatory Organization, whose application for the grant or renewal of a certificate has been rejected.
(5)  The Board may, in order to protect the interests of investors, appoint any person to take charge of the records, documents or reports relating to the organization referred to in sub- regulation  (4)  and  for  this  purpose  also  determine  the  terms  and  conditions  of  such appointment. CHAPTER III COMPOSITION AND FUNCTIONS OF SELF REGULATORY ORGANIZATIONS Composition of Board of Directors.
12. (1) The Articles of Association of a Self Regulatory Organization shall provide for the following: - (a)  There shall be a Board of Directors of the Self Regulatory Organization and majority of directors shall be independent directors. (b)  The independent directors shall not be required to hold any qualification shares. (c)  The  Board  of  Directors  shall  consist  of  nine  directors  out  of  which  five directors shall be nominated by the Board and the remaining four shall be elected by the members of the Self Regulatory Organization. (d)  The General Superintendence, direction and management of the affairs of the Self Regulatory Organization shall vest in its Board of Directors, which may exercise all powers and do all acts and things which may be exercised or done by the Self Regulatory Organization. (e)  There  shall  be  a  Chairman,  who  shall  be  an  independent  professional, appointed by Board of Directors, with the prior approval of the Board. (f)  The  Chairman  shall  be  responsible  for  day-to-day  administration  of  Self Regulatory  Organization  and  implementing  the  decisions  of  Board  of Directors. (g)  The  Board  of  Directors  may  establish  committees  including  disciplinary committee,  screening  committee,  arbitration  committee  or  remuneration committee in order to carry out the purposes of these regulations: Provided  that  the  committees  constituted  under  this  regulation  may consist  whollyof  other  persons  or  partly  of  directors  and  partly  of  other persons: Provided further that the majority of members of each such committee shall beindependent. (h)  The office bearers of Board of Directors shall relinquish their office, when the Board passes an order under clause (c) of sub-section (4) of section 11 of the Act. (i)  The  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Self  Regulatory  Organization  shall  be reconstituted as and when required by the Board. Membership of Self Regulatory Organization.
13.  (1)  After  commencement  of  these  regulations,  any  application  for  registration  or renewal of registration as an intermediary with the Board under the respective regulations applicable to such intermediaries, shall in case of any applicant who is a member of a Self Regulatory Organization or who ought to be a member of a Self Regulatory Organization, be made only through the Self Regulatory Organization of which he is a member, in the specified manner.
(2)  The application under sub-regulation (1) shall be forwarded by the Self Regulatory Organization to the Board along with its recommendation for grant or refusal of certificate of registration not later than 30 days from the date of its receipt.
(3)  The Self Regulatory Organization shall also give the reasons for its recommendation either for granting certificate of recognition or for refusal of certificate of registration by the Board. Functions and Obligations of Self Regulatory Organization.
14. (1) A Self Regulatory Organization shall always abide by the directions of the Board.
(2)  The  Self  Regulatory  Organization  shall  be  responsible  for  investor  protection  and education of investors or its members and shall ensure observance of Securities Laws by its members.
(3) The Self Regulatory Organization shall specify standard of conduct for its members and also shall be responsible for the implementation of the same by its members.
(4)  The Self Regulatory Organization shall conduct inspection and audit of its members, on regular basis, through independent auditors.
(5) The Self Regulatory Organization shall submit its annual report to the Board.
(6)  The Self Regulatory Organization shall treat all its members and the applications for membership in a fair and transparent manner.
(7)  The Self Regulatory Organization may collect admission and membership fees from its members for carrying out the purposes of these regulations.
(8)  The Self Regulatory Organization shall promptly inform the Board of violations of the provisions  of  the  Act,  the  rules,  the  regulations,  the  directions,  the  circulars  or  the guidelines by any of its members.
(9)  The Self Regulatory Organization shall conduct screening and certification tests for its members, agents and such other persons as it may determine.
(10)  Self Regulatory Organization shall conduct training programmes for its members or agents and also conduct awareness programmes for securities market investors.
(11) The  Self  Regulatory  Organization  shall  make  endeavors  for  introduction  of  best business practices amongst its members.
(12) The  Self  Regulatory  Organization  shall  act  in  utmost  good  faith  and  shall  avoid conflict of interest in the conduct of its functions.
(13) The  Self  Regulatory  Organization  shall  comply  with  the  norms  of  corporate governance as applicable to listed companies.
(14) The Self Regulatory Organization may discharge such other functions and obligations as may be specified by the Board, from time to time. Governing norms of Self Regulatory Organization.
15. (1) A Self Regulatory Organization may, subject to the previous approval of the Board, make governing norms and articles consistent with the provisions of the Act and these regulations.
(2)  In  particular,  and  without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of  the  foregoing  power,  the governing norms or articles may provide for:- (i) eligibility  criteria  for  admission  and  removal  of  members  from  Self Regulatory Organization; (ii)  manner and the periodicity of furnishing information to the Board and to its (iii) (iv) (v) (vi) members; arbitration  mechanism  for  resolving  disputes  between  members  and  /  or between members and their constituents; procedurefor  proceeding  against  the  member  committing  breach  of  the governing norms or articles including provisions for suspension or expulsion of members from the Self Regulatory Organization; internal  control  standards  including  procedure  for  inspection,  auditing, reviewing,  monitoring  and  surveillance  of  its  members  by  Self  Regulatory Organization; code  of  conduct  specifying  standards  for  its  members  in  the  conduct  of business; (vii)  procedure for conduct of election of the office bearers and members of the committees; (viii)  obligation  of  members  to  supply  such  information  or  explanation  and  to produce such documents relating to the business as Board of Directors may require; (ix)  manner  of  disciplinary  action  against  its  members  by  Self  Regulatory Organization; contents and format of the annual report; procedure for conduct of the meetings, quorum etc of Board of Directors; (x) (xi) (xii)  manner  of  maintaining  accounts  or  records  of  the  Self  Regulatory Organization; and, (xiii)  reporting requirements to the Board on monthly basis about various aspects of its functioning including policy initiatives, progress in certification, number of members admitted and disciplinary action taken against members, if any.
(3) The governing norms or articles shall also provide that the contravention of any of the governing  norms  shall  render  the  member  of  Self  Regulatory  Organization  concerned liable to one or more of the following punishments, namely:- (i) forfeiture of shares; (ii) expulsion from membership; (iii) suspension from membership for a specified period; (iv) any other penalty of a like nature not involving the payment of money.
(4) Where the Board considers it expedient so to do, it may, by order in writing, direct a Self Regulatory Organization to make any governing norms or to amend or revoke any of them within such period as it may specify in this behalf.
(5)  If a Self Regulatory Organization fails or neglects to comply with such order within the specified period, the Board may make, amend or revoke the governing norms either in the form specified in the order or with such modifications as the Board may think fit. CHAPTER IV INSPECTION AND AUDIT Board's right to inspect.
16. (1) Where it appears to the Board so to do, it may appoint one or more persons as inspecting authority to undertake inspection of the books of accounts, other records and documents of the Self Regulatory Organization for any of the purposes specified in sub- regulation (2).
(2) The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be as follows, namely: - (a)  to ensure that the provisions of the Act, the regulations, the directions and the circulars issued by the Board are being complied with; (b)  to  inquire  into  the  complaints  received  from  members,  investors,  or  any  other person  on  any  matter  having  a  bearing  on  the  activities  of  the  Self  Regulatory Organization; or, (c) to inquire suomotu, in the interest of securities business or investors' interest, into the affairs of the Self Regulatory Organization. Procedure for inspection.
17.(1)  Before  undertaking  any  inspection  under  regulation  16,  the  Board  shall  give  a reasonable notice to the Self Regulatory Organization for that purpose.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied that in the interest of the investors or in public interest, no such notice should be given, it may by an order in writing, direct that the inspection of the affairs of the Self Regulatory Organization be taken up without such notice.
(3)  On  being  empowered  by  the  Board,  the  inspecting  authority  shall  undertake  the inspection  and  the  Self  Regulatory  Organization  against  whom  an  inspection  is  being carried out shall be bound to discharge its obligations as provided under regulation 18. Obligations of Self Regulatory Organization on inspection by the Board.
18. (1) It shall be the duty of the Chairman, every Director, officer and employee of the Self Regulatory Organization, who is being inspected to produce to the inspecting authority or to  any  person  authorized  by  him,  such  books,  accounts  and  other  documents  in  their custody or control and furnish to the Board the statements and information relating to the activities  of  Self  Regulatory  Organization  in  securities  market  within  such  time  as  the Board may require.
(2)  The Self Regulatory Organization shall allow the inspecting authority or any person authorized  by  him  to  have  reasonable  access  to  the  premises  occupied  by  the  Self Regulatory Organization or by any other person on its behalf and also extend reasonable facility for examining any books, records, documents and computer data in the possession of  the  Self  Regulatory  Organization  or  any  other  person  and  also  provide  copies  of documents or other materials which, in the opinion of the inspecting authority are relevant.
(3) The  inspecting  authority  in  the  course  of  inspection  shall  be  entitled  to  examine  or record  statements  of  the  Chairman,  Director,  any  member  and  employee  of  the  Self Regulatory Organization.
(4)  It shall be the duty of the Chairman, every Director, officer and employee of the Self Regulatory Organization to give to the inspecting authority all assistance in connection with the inspection, which the Self Regulatory Organization may reasonably be expected to give. Submission of report to the Board.
19. The inspecting authority shall, as soon as possible, submit an inspection report to the Board. Appointment of auditor.
20.  (1)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  above,  the  Board  may  appoint  a  qualified auditor to inspect the books of account or the affairs of the Self Regulatory Organization. Provided  that  the  auditor  so  appointed  shall  have  the  same  powers  of  the  inspecting authority  as  mentioned  in  regulation  16  and  the  obligations  of  Self  Regulatory Organization mentioned in regulation 18 shall be applicable to an inspection under this regulation.
(2) The Board shall be entitled to recover the expenses of such audit or inspection as may be incurred by it, including fees paid to the auditors, from the concerned Self Regulatory Organization. Power of the Board to call for periodical returns or direct inquiries to be made.
21.  (1)  Every  Self  Regulatory  Organization  shall  furnish  to  the  Board  such  periodical returns relating to its affairs as may be specified.
(2)  Every  Self  Regulatory  Organization  and  every  member  thereof  shall  maintain  and preserve for such periods such books of account and other documents as the Board after consultation  with  Board  of  Directors  of  Self  Regulatory  Organization  concerned,  may specify in the interests of the trade or in the public interest and such books of account and other documents shall be subject to inspection at all reasonable times by the Board.
(3) Without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub-regulation (1) and (2), if the Board is satisfied that it is in the interests of the trade or in the public interest so to do, it may, by order, in writing, - (a)  call  upon  Board  of  Directors  of  a  Self  Regulatory  Organization  or  any  member thereof to furnish in writing such information or explanation relating to the affairs of the Self  Regulatory  Organization  or  of  the  member  in  relation  to  the  Self  Regulatory Organization as the Board may require; or (b)  appoint one or more persons to make an inquiry in the prescribed manner in relation to the affairs of a Self Regulatory Organization or the affairs of any members of the Self Regulatory Organization in relation to the Self Regulatory Organization and submit a report of the result of such inquiry to the Board within such time as may be specified in the order or, in the case of inquiry in relation to the affairs of any of the members of a Self Regulatory Organization direct Board of Directors to make the inquiry and submit its report to the Board.
(4) Where  an  inquiry  in  relation  to  the  affairs  of  a  Self  Regulatory  Organization  or  the affairs  of  any  of  its  members  in  relation  to  the  Self  Regulatory  Organization  has  been undertaken under sub-regulation (3), - (a)  the  Chairman,  every  director,  manager,  secretary,  or  other  officer  of  the  Self Regulatory Organization. (b) every member of such Self Regulatory Organization. (c)  if the member of the Self Regulatory Organization is a firm, every partner, manager, secretary or other officer of the firm; and, (d)  every other person or body of persons who has had dealings in the course of business with any of the persons mentioned in clause (a), (b) or (c) whether directly or indirectly; shall  be  bound  to  produce  before  the  authority  making  the  inquiry  all  such  books  of account, and other documents in his custody or power relating to or having a bearing on the subject  matter  of  such  inquiry  and  also  furnish  to  the  authority  such  statement  or information as he may require within such time as may be specified by him. CHAPTER V ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT Obligation of Board of Directors to take disciplinary action against a member if so directed by the Board.
22. (1) After receiving the report of an enquiry made under regulation 21, the Board may take such action as it deems proper and, in particular, may direct Board of Directors of the Self  Regulatory  Organization  to  take  such  disciplinary  action  against  the  delinquent member,  including  expulsion,  suspension  or  any  other  penalty  of  a  like  nature  not involving  the  levy  of  monetary  penalty,  as  may  be  specified  by  it  and  thereupon, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the articles or governing norms of the Self Regulatory Organization concerned, the Board of Directors of the Self Regulatory Organization shall give effect to the directions of the Board and shall not in any manner commute, revoke or modify the action taken in pursuance of such directions, without the prior written approval of the Board.
(2) The Board may either on its own motion or on representation of the member concerned, modify or withdraw any of its directions issued under sub-regulation (1), if it is satisfied that there are sufficient grounds for doing so. Withdrawal of recognition.
23. (1) If the Board is of the opinion that the recognition granted to a Self Regulatory Organization under the provisions of these Regulations should, in the interest of the trade or in the public interest, be withdrawn, it may serve a written notice in Form "C" on Board of Directors of the Self Regulatory Organization calling upon it to show cause as to why the recognition should not be withdrawn for the reasons stated in the notice.
(2)  Where  a  notice  is  issued  under  sub-regulation  (1),  the  Board  may,  after  giving  an opportunity to Board of Directors of the Self Regulatory Organization to be heard in the matter,  withdraw,  by  passing  an  order,  the  recognition  granted  to  the  Self  Regulatory Organization and thereupon sub-regulations (3), (4) and (5) of regulation 11 would apply as if the application of the Self Regulatory Organization for renewal of recognition has been rejected under regulation 10.
(3)  The Board shall promptly communicate such order to the concerned Self Regulatory Organization.
(4) On  receipt  of  the  order  passed  under  sub-regulation  (2),  the  Self  Regulatory Organization shall cease to carry on any activity as a Self Regulatory Organization and shall comply with such directions as may be issued by the Board under sub-regulation (2) read with sub- regulations (3), (4) or (5) of regulation 11, as the case may be. Action in case of violation.
3. (1) A person against whom any specified proceedings have been initiated and are pending or may be initiated, may make an application to the Board in the Form specified in Part-A of the Schedule-I.
(2) The application made under sub-regulation (1) shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application  fee  as  specified  in  Part-B  of  Schedule  I  and  the  undertakings  and  waivers  as specified in Part-C of Schedule-I: Provided  that  the  rejection  or  withdrawal  of  the  application  shall  not  affect  the continued validity of the undertakings and waivers given in respect of limitation or laches in respect of the initiation or continuation or restoration of any legal proceeding and the waivers given under sub-paras (d), (e), (f) and (g) of para 12 of the undertaking and waivers as provided in Part-C of the Schedule-I and subject  to such undertakings and waivers, the Board  or the applicant,  shall  be  free  to  initiate  or  pursue  such  proceedings  as  may  be  appropriate  in accordance with law.
(3) The applicant shall make full and true disclosures in the application in respect of the alleged default(s): Provided that the facts established against the applicant or admitted in any ongoing or concluded proceedings in India or outside India, with respect to the same cause of action, under any law, shall be deemed to be admitted by the applicant in respect of the proceedings proposed to be settled.
(4) The applicant shall make one application for settlement of all the proceedings that have been initiated or may be initiated in respect of the same cause of action.
(5) An application that is not complete in all respects or does not conform to the requirements of these regulations shall be returned to the applicant. 3
(6) The applicant whose application has been returned under sub- regulation (5) may, within fifteen days from the date of communication from the Board, submit the complete and revised application that conforms to the requirements of these regulations: Provided  that  no  further  opportunity  shall  be  given  to  the  applicant  to  make  an application in respect of the alleged default at the same stage of the proceedings, as indicated in Table I in Schedule-II.
(7) Where the applicant is an association or a firm or a body corporate or a limited liability partnership, the application and undertakings and waivers shall be executed by the person in charge of, and responsible for the conduct of the business of such firm or association or body corporate and the same shall bind the firm or association, the body corporate and any officer who is in default. shall have the same meaning as provided in sub-Section (60) of Section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013.
(8) An application for settlement of defaults related to disclosures, shall to the extent possible, be made after making the required disclosure. Limitation.
4. (1) An application in respect of any specified proceeding pending before the Board shall not be considered if it is made after sixty days from the date of service of the notice to show cause or supplementary notice(s) to show cause, whichever is later.
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  the  Board  may  consider  the application, if satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not filing it within the specified period and it is accompanied with non-refundable fees as specified in Part-B of the Schedule-I: Provided that, where the application is filed after sixty calendar days from the expiry of the period specified in sub-regulation (1), the settlement amount determined in accordance with Schedule-II of these regulations shall be increased by twenty five percent: Provided further that, no such delayed application shall be considered if the application is filed after one hundred and twenty calendar days from the expiry of the period specified in sub-regulation (1) or after the first hearing, whichever is earlier. 4
(3) The provisions of this regulation shall not apply in the case of proceedings pending before the Tribunal or any court. CHAPTER III SCOPE OF SETTLEMENT Scope of settlement proceedings.
5. (1) No application for settlement of any specified proceedings shall be considered, if: (a) an earlier application with regard to the same alleged default had been rejected; (b) the audit or investigation or inspection or inquiry, if any, in respect  of any cause of action, is not complete, except in case of applications involving confidentiality; or (c)  monies due under an order issued under securities laws are liable for recovery under securities laws.
(2) The Board may not settle any specified proceeding, if it is of the opinion that the alleged default, - i. ii. has market wide impact, caused losses to a large number of investors, or iii. affected the integrity of the market.
(3) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions, for settling any specified proceeding the Board may inter alia take into account the following factors, - (a)  whether the applicant has refunded or disgorged the monies due, to the satisfaction of the Board; (b) whether the applicant has provided an exit or purchase option to investors in compliance with securities laws, to the satisfaction of the Board; 5 (c)  whether the applicant is in compliance with securities laws or any order or direction passed under securities laws, to the satisfaction of the Board; (d) any other factor as may be deemed appropriate by the Board.
(4) Without prejudice to sub-regulations (1) and (3), the Board may not settle the  specified proceedings  where  the  applicant  is  a  wilful  defaulter,  a  fugitive  economic  offender  or  has defaulted in payment of any fees due or penalty imposed under securities laws.
(5) Nothing contained in these regulations shall be construed to restrict the right of the Panel of  Whole  Time  Members  to  consider  or  reject  any  application  in  respect  of  any  specified proceeding  without  examination  by  the  Internal  Committee  or  the  High  Powered  Advisory Committee. Rejection of application.
6. (1) An application may at any time be rejected on the following grounds: (a)  Where the applicant refuses to receive or respond to the communications sent by the Board; (b) Where  the  applicant  does  not  submit  or  delays  the  submission  of  information, document, etc., as called for by the Board; (c)  Where  the  applicant  who  is  required  to  appear,  does  not  appear  before  the  Internal Committee on more than one occasion; (d) Where the applicant violates in any manner the undertaking and waivers as provided in Part-C of the Schedule-I; (e)  Where the applicant does not remit the settlement amount within the period specified in  clause  (a)  of  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  15  and/or  does  not  abide  by  the undertaking and waivers.
(2) The rejection under sub-regulation (1) shall be communicated to the applicant: Provided  that  the  applicant  shall  continue  to  be  bound  by  the  waivers  given  in  respect  of limitation  or  laches  in  respect  of  the  initiation  or  continuation  or  restoration  of  any  legal proceeding  and  the  waivers  given  under  sub-paras  (d),  (e),  (f)  and  (g)  of  para  12  of  the undertaking and waivers as provided in Part-C of the Schedule-I. 6 Withdrawal of application.
7. (1) An application may be withdrawn at any time prior to the communication of the decision of the Panel of Whole Time Members under regulation 15.
(2) An applicant who withdraws an application under sub-regulation (1) shall not be permitted to make another application in respect of the same default: Provided  that, as may  be  recommended  by the High  Powered  Advisory  Committee, such an application may be considered subject to an increase of atleast fifty percent over the settlement amount determined in accordance with Schedule-II of these Regulations. Effect of pending application on specified proceedings.
8. (1) The filing of an application for settlement of any specified proceedings shall not affect the continuance of  the  proceedings  save  that  the  passing  of  the  final  order  shall  be  kept  in abeyance till the application is disposed of.
(2)    Where  the  application  is  filed in  case  of  proceedings  that  may  be  initiated  against  the applicant, such proceedings shall not be initiated till the application is rejected or withdrawn: Provided  that,  the  filing  of  an  application  shall  not  prohibit  the  initiation  of  any proceedings, in so far as may be deemed necessary for the purpose of issuance of interim civil and administrative directions to protect the interests of investors and to maintain the integrity of the securities markets. the settlement application is filed only by one or more persons, but not all, the filing of such an application shall not affect the initiation, continuation and disposal of the proceedings against the person who has not filed the application for settlement and any adverse observations made in such proceedings against the applicant shall qua the applicant be subject to the outcome of the settlement application filed by such applicant. 7 CHAPTER IV TERMS OF SETTLEMENT Settlement terms.
9. (1) The settlement terms may include a settlement amount and/or non-monetary terms, in accordance with the guidelines specified in Schedule-II.
(2) The non-monetary terms may include the following: (a) Suspension or cessation of business activities for a specified period; (b) Exit from Management; (c) Disgorgement on account of the action or inaction of the applicant; (d) Refraining from acting as a partner or officer or director of an intermediary or as an officer or director of a company that has a class of securities regulated by the Board, for specified periods; (e) Cancel  securities  and  reduce  holdings  where  the  securities  are  issued  fraudulently, including bonus shares received on such securities, if any, and reimburse any dividends received, etc.; (f)  Lock-in of securities; (g) Implementation of enhanced policies and procedures to prevent future securities laws violations as well as agreeing to appoint or engage an independent consultant to review internal policies, processes and procedures; (h) Provide enhanced training and education to employees of intermediaries and securities market infrastructure institutions; (i)  Submit to enhanced internal audit and reporting requirements.
(3) The settlement amount, excluding the legal costs and disgorged amount, shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund of India.
(4) The application fee referred to in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3 and the legal costs, if any, forming part of the settlement amount shall be credited to the Securities and Exchange Board of India General Fund. 8 in  respect  of  costs  for  obtaining  appropriate  orders  from  the  Tribunal  or  Court  under  sub- regulation (2) of regulation 24.
(5) The amount of profits made or losses avoided by the applicant that may be disgorged as part of the settlement terms, shall be credited to the Investor Protection and Education Fund. Factors to be considered to arrive at the settlement terms.
10.  While  arriving  at  the  settlement  terms,  the  factors  indicated  in  Schedule-II  may  be considered, including but not limited, to the following: (a)  conduct of the applicant during the specified proceeding, investigation, inspection or audit; (b) the role played by the applicant in case the alleged default is committed by a group of persons; (c)  nature, gravity and impact of alleged defaults; (d) whether any other proceeding against the applicant for non-compliance of securities laws is pending or concluded; (e)  the extent of harm and/or loss to the investors’ and/or gains made by the applicant; (f)  processes  that  have  been  introduced  since  the  alleged  default  to  minimize  future defaults or lapses; (g) compliance schedule proposed by the applicant; (h) economic  benefits  accruing  to  any  person  from  the  non-compliance  or  delayed compliance; (i)  conditions which are necessary to deter future non-compliance by the same or another person; (j)  satisfaction of claim of investors regarding payment of money due to them or delivery of securities to them; (k) any  other enforcement action  that  has  been taken against the applicant for  the  same violation; (l)  any other factors necessary in the facts and circumstances of the case. 9 CHAPTER V COMMITTEES High Powered Advisory Committee.
11. (1) The Board shall constitute a High Powered Advisory Committee for consideration and recommendation of the terms of settlement.
(2) The High Powered Advisory Committee shall consist of a Judicial member who has been the Judge of the Supreme Court or a High Court and three external experts having expertise in securities market or in matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
(3) The term of the members of the High Powered Advisory Committee shall be three years which may be extended for a further period of two years.
(4)  The  quorum  for  a  meeting  of  the  High  Powered  Advisory  Committee  shall  be  of  three members. medium of electronic video linkage.
(5) The High Powered Advisory Committee shall conduct its meetings in the manner specified by the Board in this regard: Provided that: (i)  where  any  member  of  the  High  Powered  Advisory  Committee  seeks  recusal,  the remaining two or more members  may submit their recommendation on the terms of settlement; (ii) where  no  consensus  or  majority  may  be  reached,  the  recommendation  made  by  the Judicial member shall be considered to be the recommendation of the High Powered Advisory  Committee  and in  case  of  recusal  of the  Judicial  member, the recommendations  of  the  remaining  two  or  more  members  shall  be  submitted  for consideration to the Panel of Whole Time Members; and (iii) where  all  or all but one  of the  members of the High Powered Advisory Committee recuse themselves in respect of an application, the Board may constitute another High Powered Advisory Committee. 10 Internal committee(s).
12. (1) Internal Committee(s) shall be constituted by the Board.
(2) The Internal Committee(s) shall comprise of an officer of the Board not below the rank of Chief General Manager and such other officers as may be specified by the Board. CHAPTER VI PROCEDURE OF SETTLEMENT Proceedings before the Internal Committee.
13. (1) Save as otherwise provided in these regulations, an application shall be referred to an Internal Committee to examine whether the proceedings may be settled and if so to determine the settlement terms in accordance with these regulations.
(2) The Internal Committee may: (a)  call for relevant information, documents, etc., pertaining to the alleged default(s) in possession of the applicant or obtainable by the applicant; seek information from the Board or require the Board to seek information from any other person for the purpose of relying upon it in the settlement proceedings or request the Board to permit it to present information not already disclosed in the application, which  the  applicant  was  aware  of  at  the  time  of  making  the  application  or  which information  upon  diligent  enquiry  being  made  could  have  become  known  to  the applicant. (b)  call for the personal appearance of the applicant before it: Provided that a duly authorized representative of the applicant may represent on behalf of the applicant: 11 audio-video electronic means or through the medium of electronic video linkage as may be permitted by the Internal Committee. (c)  permit the applicant to submit revised settlement terms within a period not exceeding ten working days from the date of the Internal Committee meeting: Provided that the revised settlement terms received after ten working days, but within twenty working days may be considered subject to an increase of ten percent over the recommended settlement amount.
(3) The proposed settlement terms, if any, shall be placed before the High Powered Advisory Committee. Proceedings before the High Powered Advisory Committee.
14. (1) The High Powered Advisory Committee shall consider the proposed settlement terms placed before it along with the following: (a)  the application, undertaking and waivers of the applicant; (b) factors specified in regulation 10; (c)  settlement terms or revised settlement terms proposed by the applicant; (d) any other relevant material available on record.
(2) The High Powered Advisory Committee may seek revision of the settlement terms and refer the application back to the Internal Committee.
(3) The recommendations of the High Powered Advisory Committee shall be placed before the Panel of Whole Time Members. Action on the recommendation of High Powered Advisory Committee.
15. (1) The Panel of Whole Time Members shall consider the recommendations of the High Powered Advisory Committee and may accept or reject the same: Provided that where the recommendations of the High Powe red Advisory Committee to settle the specified proceedings are rejected, the panel of Whole Time Members shall record reasons : for rejection of the recommendations 12 Provided further that where the recommendation of the High Powered Advisory Committee to settle  the  specified  proceedings  are  rejected,  such  decision  of  the  panel  of  Whole  Time Members shall be communicated to the applicant.
(2)  Where  the  Panel  of  Whole  Time  Members  accepts  the  recommendation  of  the  High Powered Advisory Committee to settle the specified proceedings, the applicant shall be issued a notice of demand within seven working days of the decision of the panel and the applicant shall, - (a) remit the settlement amount forming part of the settlement terms, not later than 1[thirty]  calendar days from the date of receipt of the notice of demand, which may be extended by the Panel of Whole Time Members for reasons to be recorded, 2[by sixty calendar days, only after receipt of an application seeking extension of time within thirty days from the date of receipt of notice of demand]: direct credit in the specified bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other authorised 4[electronic] mode of payment. Provided  that,  where  the  settlement  amount  is  remitted  after  thirty  calendar  days from the date of receipt of the notice of demand and on or before the ninetieth day from such receipt, the settlement amount payable by the applicant shall be increased by the levy of simple interest at the rate of six per cent per annum from the date of receipt of the notice of demand till the date of payment of the settlement amount: Provided further that, in no case shall such remittance be accepted after the ninetieth calendar day from the date of the receipt of the notice of demand. (b) fulfil/undertake in writing to abide by, the other settlement terms, if any, within the time provided to the applicant.
(3) Where the Panel of Whole Time Members does not accept the recommendation of the High Powered  Advisory  Committee  to  settle  the  specified  proceedings  on  the  settlement  terms recommended by it, the panel may return the application for re-examination of the settlement terms and thereafter the procedure as applicable in the case of an original application shall be followed by the Internal Committee and the High Powered Advisory Committee. CHAPTER VII SUMMARY SETTLEMENT PROCEDURE Summary settlement procedure
16.  (1)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  Chapter  VI,  before  initiating  any  specified proceeding, the Board may issue a notice of summary settlement in the format as specified in Part-A of Schedule-III, calling upon the noticee to file a settlement application under Chapter- II  and submit the settlement amount and/or furnish  an  undertaking  in  respect  of  other non- monetary terms or comply with other non-monetary terms, as may be specified in the summary settlement  notice  in  respect  of  the  specified  proceeding(s)  to  be  initiated  for  the  following defaults,- i.  Delayed disclosures, including filing of returns, report, document, etc.; ii.  Non-disclosure  in  relation  to  companies  exclusively  listed  on  regional  stock exchanges which have exited; iii.  Disclosures not made in the specified formats; iv.  Delayed compliance of any of the requirements of law or directions issued by the Board; v. Such other defaults as may be determined by the Board. Provided that, the specified proceeding(s) shall not be settled under this Chapter, if in the opinion of the Board, the applicant has failed to make a full and true disclosure of facts or failed to co-operate in the required manner. 14
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in the notice of settlement, the Board  shall have  the power  to  modify  the  enforcement  action  to  be  brought  against  the  noticee and the notice of  settlement  shall  not  confer  any  right  upon  the  noticee  to  seek  settlement  or  avoid  any enforcement action.
(3)  The  noticee  may,  within  thirty  calendar  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  the  notice  of settlement, - (a) file a settlement application in the Form specified in Part-A of Schedule-I along with non-refundable application fee as specified in Part-B and the undertakings and waivers as specified in Part-C of Schedule-I; (b) remit the settlement amount as specified in the notice of settlement; (c)  comply  or  undertake  to  comply  with  other  non-monetary  terms  as  specified  in  the notice of settlement, as the case may be; and (d) seek rectification of the calculation of the settlement amount, as communicated in the notice of settlement, at the time of filing the settlement application and in all such cases, the decision of the Board shall be final and remittance shall be done within thirty calendar days from the date of receipt of the decision of the Board: Provided that, the Board may for reasons to be recorded, grant extension of time not exceeding  a  further  period  of  fifteen  calendar  days  for  filing  the  settlement  application, remittance of the settlement amount and/or furnishing an undertaking in respect of any of the non-monetary terms or compliance with any of the non-monetary terms specified in the notice of settlement.
(4) Upon being satisfied with the remittance of settlement amount and undertaking furnished in respect of the non-monetary terms or compliance with non-monetary terms, if any as detailed in the settlement notice, the Board shall pass an order of settlement under regulation 23.
17. Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, where a noticee does not file a settlement application under this Chapter or remit the settlement amount and/or comply with 15 other  non-monetary  terms  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  Board  or  withdraws  the  settlement application at any time prior to the communication of the decision of the Board, the specified proceedings may be initiated, and such a noticee shall only be permitted to file a settlement application in respect of the proceedings pending before the Court or Tribunal, after conclusion of proceedings before the Adjudicating Officer or the Board, as the case may be. 5[***] CHAPTER IX SETTLEMENT WITH CONFIDENTIALITY Settlement with confidentiality.
19. (1) An applicant seeking the benefit of confidentiality in return for admitting for the limited purpose  of  settlement  of  specified  proceedings  to  be  initiated  and  agreeing  to  provide substantial  assistance  in  the  investigation,  inspection,  inquiry  or  audit,  to  be  initiated  or ongoing, against any other person in respect of a violation of securities laws, shall fulfil the conditions of this Chapter, including – (a)  cease  to  participate  in  the  violation  of  securities  laws  from  the  time  of  the disclosure of information, unless otherwise directed by the Board; (b) provide and continue to provide complete and true disclosure of information, documents and evidence, which is in his possession or he is able to obtain, to the  satisfaction  of  the  Board  in  respect  of  the  alleged  contravention  of  the provisions of securities laws; (c)  co-operate fully, continuously and expeditiously throughout the investigation, inspection, inquiry or audit and related proceedings before the Board; and (d) not  conceal,  destroy,  manipulate  or  remove  the  relevant  documents  in  any manner that may contribute to the establishment of the alleged violation. disclosure and reporting requirements detailed in Schedule II. Provided that an application made under this chapter shall be made only in cases prior to or pending investigation, inspection, inquiry or audit.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, where an applicant fails  to comply with the conditions mentioned in this regulation, the Board may rely upon the information and evidence submitted by the applicant in any proceedings
(3) Without prejudice to sub-regulations (1) and (2), the Board may subject the applicant to further restrictions or conditions, as deemed fit, after considering the facts and circumstances of the case.
(4) For the  purpose  of seeking confidentiality, the applicant or its authorized representative may make an application containing all the relevant disclosures pertaining to the information as  specified  in  Schedule-IV  for  furnishing  the  information  and  evidence  relating  to  the commission of any violation of securities laws.
(5) Upon being satisfied the Board may assure the benefit of confidentiality and shall thereupon mark  the  status  of  the  application  depending  upon  its  priority  and  convey  the  same  to  the applicant in writing. 17
(6) The Board may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, at any stage, reject the application if the information, documents or evidence is found to be incomplete or false to the knowledge of the applicant.
(7) The rejection of the application for confidentiality shall be communicated to the applicant. Procedure.
20.  (1)  The  provisions  of  Chapters  IV  to  VI  of  these  regulations  may  be  applied  mutatis mutandis to  a  settlement application  filed  under  this  Chapter and  a  settlement  order  passed accordingly.
(2) The information, documents and evidence provided by the applicant under this chapter shall be submitted in the manner specified by the Board. Confidentiality and assurance.
21. For the purposes of providing the applicant with interim confidentiality and assurance from being proceeded with, the Board may not initiate regulatory measures when the Board has a reasonable belief that the information provided to it relates to a possible securities law violation that has occurred, is ongoing or about to occur. Confidentiality.
22.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  Chapter  X,  the  following  shall  be  treated  as confidential, - (a)  the identity of the applicant seeking confidentiality; and (b) the information, documents and evidence furnished by the applicant under this Chapter: Provided that, the identity of the applicant or such information or documents or evidence may not be treated as confidential if, — (i) the disclosure is required by law; (ii) the applicant has agreed to such disclosure in writing; or (iii) there has been a public disclosure by the applicant. 18 CHAPTER X SETTLEMENT ORDERS Settlement of proceedings before the Adjudicating Officer and the Board.
23.  (1)  The  Adjudicating  Officer  shall  by  an  appropriate  order  dispose  of  the  proceeding pending before him on the basis of the approved settlement terms. Panel of Whole Time Members and thereafter the concerned Adjudicating officer may pass an order, disposing of the relevant proceedings before him, in view of the settlement.
(2) The Panel of the Whole Time Members shall by an appropriate order dispose of proceedings initiated or proposed to be initiated other than the proceedings referred to in sub-regulation (1).
(3) The settlement order passed under these regulations shall, contain the details of the alleged default(s), relevant provisions of the securities laws, brief facts and circumstances relevant to the alleged default, the admissions made by the applicant, if any and the settlement terms. Settlement of the proceedings pending before the Tribunal or any court.
24. (1) Save as otherwise provided in these regulations, the provisions with regard to settlement of specified proceedings shall mutatis mutandis apply to an application for settlement of any proceeding pending before the Tribunal or any court.
(2) The proposal of settlement along with the settlement terms  or rejection thereof shall  be placed before such Tribunal or court for appropriate orders. Service and publication of settlement order.
25. Settlement orders shall be served on the applicant and shall also be published on the website of the Board: Provided  that  settlement  orders  in  matters  relating  to  the  confidentiality  shall  not, directly or indirectly, disclose the identity of the applicant, but shall indicate the provisions of securities laws which the applicant is alleged to have violated. 19 Settlement Schemes.
26.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  these  regulations,  the  Board  may  specify  the procedure and terms of settlement of specified proceedings under a settlement scheme for any class of persons involved in respect of any similar specified defaults. settlement order under these regulations. Effect of settlement order on third party rights or other proceedings.
27. (1) A settlement order under these regulations shall not be admissible as evidence in any other proceeding relating to an alleged default not covered under the settlement order nor affect the right of third parties arising out of the alleged default.
(2) Where any applicant who obtains a settlement order is also noticee along with any other person in any civil and administrative proceeding, the Adjudicating Officer or the Board while disposing proceedings against such other person may make necessary observations in respect of the applicant in so far as is necessary to prove the act of another: Provided that, unless the settlement order is revoked, such observations shall qua the applicant be subject to the settlement order obtained by the applicant.
(3) Where any person has obtained a settlement order, which contains observations in respect of any other person for the commission of an alleged default, such an order shall not in itself be admissible as evidence against such other person. Revocation of the settlement order.
28.  (1)  If  the  applicant  fails  to  comply  with  the  settlement  order  or  at  any  time  after  the settlement order is passed, it comes to the notice of the Board that the applicant has not made full and true disclosure or has violated the undertakings or waivers, settlement order shall stand revoked and withdrawn and the Board shall restore or initiate the proceedings, with respect to which the settlement order was passed.
(2) Whenever any settlement order is revoked, no amount paid under these regulations shall be refunded. 20 CHAPTER XI MISCELLANEOUS Confidentiality of information.
29.  (1)  All  information  submitted  and  discussions  held  in  pursuance  of  the  settlement proceedings  under  these  regulations  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  received  or  made  in  a fiduciary capacity and the same may not be released to the public, if the same prejudices the Board and/or the applicant.
(2) Where an application is rejected or withdrawn, the applicant and the Board shall not rely upon or introduce as evidence before any court or Tribunal, any proposals made or information submitted or representation made by the applicant under these regulations: Provided that this sub-regulation shall not apply where the settlement order is revoked or withdrawn under these regulations. person in pursuance of an application, so much of such information, whether it amounts to an admission or not, as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered, may be proved. Power to remove difficulties.
30. In order to remove any difficulty in the interpretation or application or implementation of the provisions of these regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue clarifications and specify procedures through circulars or guidelines. Irregularity in procedure
31. No settlement order or rejection of a settlement application shall be void on ground of any defect in procedure or calculation of the settlement amount or on account of any vacancy in or any defect in the constitution of any committee under Chapter V: Provided  that,  nothing  in  these  regulations  shall  prohibit  the  Board  from  revoking  the settlement  order  where  the  applicant  fails  to  pay  any  difference  due  to  any  discrepancy  in calculation of the settlement amount: Provided further that, the applicant shall continue to be bound by the waivers given in respect of limitation or laches in respect of initiating or continuing or restoring of any legal proceeding 21 and the waivers given in sub-paras (d), (e) (f) and (g) of para 12 of the undertaking and waivers as provided in Part-C of the Schedule-I. Relevance of these regulations in specified proceedings
32. Schedule-II of these regulations shall be relevant but not bind the Board or an Adjudicating Officer in any specified proceeding and the Board or the Adjudicating Officer may apply them to the extent possible. Procedure for composition.
33. The provisions of Chapters IV to VI and Schedule-II may be applied mutatis mutandis for arriving at a proposal pursuant to a compounding application. Repeal and savings.
34. (1) On and from the commencement of these regulations, Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) Regulations, 2014 shall stand repealed.
(2) Notwithstanding any such repeal: (a)  Notice  of  settlement  issued  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings)  Regulations,  2014  shall  be deemed to have been filed in accordance with these regulations and shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of these regulations; (b) All applications filed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement of  Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings)  Regulations,  2014  and  pending  with  the Board shall be deemed to have been filed in accordance with these regulations and shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of these regulations; (c)  All  settlement  orders  passed  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings)  Regulations,  2014  shall  be deemed to have been passed under these regulations; 22 (d) The Internal Committee(s) and the High Powered Advisory Committee constituted by  the  Board  in  accordance  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings)  Regulations,  2014,  shall  be deemed to have been constituted under these regulations; (e)  The  proposals  of the  Internal Committees and  the  recommendations of  the High Powered Advisory Committee in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) Regulations, 2014 and any action taken by the Board on the basis of these recommendations shall be deemed to have been made under these regulations.
(3)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  Chapters  VI  to  Chapter  VIII,  with  respect  to specified proceedings pending as on the date of commencement of this Chapter, the Board may issue a notice of summary settlement or settlement under Chapter VII or Chapter VIII, as the case  may  be,  in  respect  of  such  proceedings  and  in  such  cases  the  procedure  specified  in Chapter VII or Chapter VIII shall apply mutatis mutandis, as the case may be: is not deemed  to  be  initiated  and  pending, unless the  Board  has communicated  the  matter to the authority who shall conduct such proceedings.
3A. Unless otherwise provided in these Regulations, an issuer making an offer of municipal debt securities shall satisfy the conditions of these Regulations as on the date of filing of the draft offer document or preliminary placement memorandum with the Board and also  as on the  date  of  filing  the  offer  document  or  placement  memorandum  with  the  Board  or  upon registering the offer document or placement memorandum with the Registrar of Companies, as the case may be.] 9[Eligible issuers.
4. No issuer shall be eligible to issue municipal debt securities under these regulations, unless the following criteria are complied with: (a) the issuer, proposing to issue municipal debt securities is eligible to raise funds under its constitution document; (b) the accounts of issuer shall be prepared in accordance with any of the following: i.  National Municipal Accounts Manual or; ii.  Municipal Accounts Manual as adopted by the respective State Governments; or iii.  Accounting  standards,  applicable  to  issuers,  as  prescribed  under  the  Companies Act or; iv.  Accounting  standards/policies,  applicable  to  issuers,  as  specified  in  their constitution document. (c) the issuer has not defaulted in repayment of debt securities or loans obtained from banks or financial institutions, during the preceding three hundred and sixty five days; (d)  no  order  or  direction  of  restraint,  prohibition  or  debarment  by  the  Board  is  in  force against the issuer or its promoters or its directors from accessing the securities market; (e)  an  issuer  or  its  promoter,  group  company  or  director(s)  thereof,  should  not  have  been named in the list of the wilful defaulters; (f)  any  of  its  promoter  or  director(s)  has  not  been  declared  as  a  fugitive  economic offender(s): Provided that where the  issuer is  a body corporate to  which the Companies Act,  2013 applies or is a Special Purpose Vehicle, which is set up for the purpose of raising funds for an person for performing one or more functions entrusted under Article 243W of the Constitution of India, the requirements at clauses (b) and (c) above shall be complied by the person being financed.] 10[In-principle approval
4A. The issuer shall make an application to one or more recognized stock exchange for listing of such securities therein: Provided  that  where  the  application  is  made  to  more  than  one  recognised  stock  exchanges, the issuer shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange: designated stock exchange subject to the requirements of this regulation. Credit Rating
4B. The issuer shall obtain credit rating from at least one credit rating agency registered with the  Board,  which  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  offer  document  or  placement  memorandum,  as applicable: Provided that where credit ratings are obtained from more than one credit rating agency, all the  ratings,  including  the  unaccepted  ratings,  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  offer  document  or placement memorandum, as applicable. Dematerialisation
4C. The issuer shall enter into an arrangement with a depository registered with the Board for dematerialisation  of  the  municipal  debt  securities  that  are  proposed  to  be  issued,  in accordance with the Depositories Act, 1996, rules and regulations made thereunder. Debenture trustee
4D. The issuer shall appoint a debenture trustee registered with the Board in accordance with the  provisions  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Debenture  Trustees) Regulations, 1993. Mandatory Listing
4E.  (1)  The  issuer  shall  make  an  application  for  listing  to  one  or  more  recognised  stock exchanges in the manner specified by the Board.
(2) In case the issuer fails to obtain listing or trading permission from any of the recognized stock  exchanges  where  the  municipal  debt  securities  were  proposed  to  be  listed,  it  shall refund  the  entire  monies  received  within  seven  days  of  receipt  of  intimation  from  stock exchange  or  in  case  of  multiple  stock  exchange(s)  within  seven  days  from  the  earliest intimation  rejecting  the  application  for  listing  of  municipal  debt  securities,  and  if  any  such money  is  not  repaid  after  the  issuer  becomes  liable  to  repay  it,  the  issuer  shall  be  liable  to repay  that  money  with  interest  at  the  rate  of  fifteen  percent  per  annum  till  such  refund  is made: Provided that where the issuer is a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013, applies every director of the company who is an officer in default shall also be jointly and severally liable to repay that money with interest.] CHAPTER III REQUIREMENTS FOR PUBLIC ISSUE 11[Eligibility Conditions for public issue
5.  No  issuer  shall  make  a  public  issue  of  municipal  debt  securities  unless  the  following conditions are complied with: (a) the issuer has surplus income as per its Income and Expenditure Statement in any of the immediately preceding three financial years or as per  any other financial criteria as may be specified by the Board from time to time: Provided that where the issuer is a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 applies,  it  shall  not  have  negative  net  worth  in  any  of  immediately  preceding  three financial years; Provided that where the issuer is a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 applies  or  is  a  Special  Purpose  Vehicle,  which  is  set  up  for  the  purpose  of  raising funds  for  an  person  for  performing  one  or  more  functions  entrusted  under  Article 243W of the Constitution of India, the requirements at clause (a) shall be complied by the person being financed; (b)  Any other conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 12[Disclosures in the draft offer document and offer document.
6.  (1)  The  draft  offer  document  and  offer  document  shall  contain  true,  fair  and  material disclosures, which are necessary for the subscribers of the municipal debt securities to take an informed investment decision.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the issuer and the lead manager shall ensure that the draft offer document contains the following: (a) (b) disclosures specified in Schedule I and Schedule IA of these regulations; additional disclosures as may be specified by the Board: Provided  that  in  case  the  issuer  is  a  body  corporate  to  which  the  Companies  Act,  2013 applies,  the  issuer  and  the  lead  manager  shall  ensure  that  the  draft  offer  document  and  the offer document also contain the disclosures as mandated by the Companies Act, 2013 and the
(3) The  lead  manager(s)  shall  exercise  due  diligence  and  satisfy  themselves  about  all aspects   of the   issue  including  the  veracity  and  adequacy  of disclosures  in   the  draft offer  document  and  the offer document.] 13[Appointment of Merchant Banker and other intermediaries
6A. (1)The  issuer  shall  appoint  one  or  more  merchant  bankers,  which  are  registered with  the Board, as lead manager(s) to the issue.
(2) Where  the  issue is  managed  by  more  than  one  lead  manager,  the  rights,  obligations and responsibilities, relating to disclosures,  allotment, refund  and underwriting obligations among other things, if any, of each lead manager shall be predetermined and be disclosed in the draft offer document and the offer document.
(3)  The  issuer  shall,  in  consultation  with  the  lead  manager(s),  appoint  other  registered intermediaries after the lead manager(s) have independently assessed their capability to carry out their obligations.
(4) Where there is only one lead manager he shall not be an associate (as defined under  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992) of the issuer.
(5) In case there are multiple lead managers, at least one lead manager to the issue shall not be  an  associate  (as  defined  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992) of the issuer
(6) If the lead manager is an associate of the issuer, it shall disclose itself as an associate of the issuer and its role shall be limited to marketing of the issue.] 14[Filing of draft offer document
7.  (1)  No  issuer  shall  make  a  public  issue  of  municipal  debt  securities  unless  a  draft  offer document  has  been  filed  with  the  Board  and  designated  stock  exchange  through  the  lead manager: Provided  that  where  an  issuer  has  filed  a  shelf  offer  document,  not  more  than  four  public issuances shall be made through a single shelf offer document. or  Detailed  Project  Appraisal  Report  (DPR)  from  a  scheduled  commercial  bank  or  public  financial institution stating that the project is financially viable, based on the estimates/assumptions available at that time.
(7)  A  copy  of  draft  and  final  offer  document  shall  also  be  forwarded  to  the  Board  for  its  records, simultaneously with filing of these documents with designated stock exchange.
(8)  The  issuer  filing  a  shelf  prospectus  shall  file  a  copy  of  an  information  memorandum  with  the recognised  stock  exchanges  and  the  Board  and  in  case  of  a  corporate  municipal  entity,  file  the  same with the Registrar of Companies.
(9)  Where  the  issuer  is  a  corporate  municipal  entity,  the  information  memorandum  shall  contain  the disclosures specified in Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder and shall include disclosures regarding summary term sheet, material updations including revision in ratings, if any, along with the rating rationale and financial ratios specified in Schedule I.
(10)  The  lead  merchant  banker  shall,  prior  to  opening  of  the  public  issue,  furnish  to  the  Board  a  due diligence certificate as per Schedule II of these regulations: Provided that where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, the lead merchant banker shall, prior to filing of the final offer document with the Registrar of Companies, furnish to the Board a due diligence certificate as per Schedule II of these regulations.
(11)  The  debenture  trustee,  wherever  appointed  under  proviso  to  sub-regulation  (7)  of  Regulation  5 shall,  prior  to  the  opening  of  the  public  issue,  furnish  to  the  Board  a  due  diligence  certificate  as  per Schedule III of these regulations.”
(2)  The  lead  manager  shall  submit  the  following  to  the  Board  along  with  the  draft  offer document, - (a) certificate confirming that a written agreement has been entered into between the issuer and the lead manger; (b) a due diligence certificate as per Form A of Schedule II.
(3) The  Board  may  specify  changes  or  issue  observations,  if  any,  on  the  draft  offer document within twenty one days from the later of the following dates: a) the date of receipt of the draft offer document under sub-regulation (1); or b) the  date  of  receipt  of  satisfactory  reply  from  the  lead  manager(s),  where the  Board  has sought any clarification or additional information from them; or c) the date of receipt of clarification or information from any regulator or agency, where the Board has sought  any clarification or information  from such  regulator or agency; or d) the date of receipt of a copy of in-principle approval letter issued by the stock exchange(s).
(4) The draft offer document filed with the designated stock exchange shall be made public by  posting  the  same  on  the  website  of  the  designated  stock  exchange  for  seeking  public comments  for a period of fifteen days from the date of filing the draft offer document  with such exchange and shall be available for download in PDF / HTML formats.
(5)  The  draft  offer  document  shall  also  be  displayed  on  the  website  of  the  issuer,  lead manager(s) and the stock exchanges where the municipal debt  securities are proposed to  be listed.
(6)  The  lead  manager  shall  ensure  that  the  draft  offer  document  specifies  the  names  and contact  details  of the compliance officer of the lead manager, the officer concerned and the project  officer,  wherever  applicable,    of  the  issuer  including  their  postal  and  email  address, telephone and fax numbers.
(7) The lead manager shall after expiry of the period stipulated in sub-regulation (4) file with the  Board  the  details  of  the  comments  received  by  them  or  the  issuer  from  the  public  in respect  of  the  draft  offer  document,  during  the  period  stipulated  in  sub-regulation  (4), alongwith  the  consequential  changes,  if  any,  that  are  required  to  be  made  in  the  draft  offer document.
(8)  If    the    Board    specifies    any    changes    or    issues    observations,    the  issuer    and    lead manager(s)  shall  carry  out  such  changes  in  the  draft  offer  document and  shall submit to the  Board  the updated draft offer document complying  with  the  observations  issued  by the  Board  and  highlighting  all  changes  made  in  the  draft  offer  document  and    before  filing the  offer  document with  the stock exchange or Registrar of Companies, as the case may be.
(9)  The    lead    manager(s)    shall    submit    the    following    documents    to    the    Board    after issuance  of observations  by  the  Board  or  after  expiry  of  the  period  stipulated  in  sub- regulation  (3) of this regulation if the Board has not issued observations: a) a  statement  certifying  that  all  changes,  suggestions  and  observations  made by    the    Board  have  been  incorporated  in  the  offer  document  or  the  placement memorandum; b) a due  diligence  certificate  as per Form B and Form C of Schedule  II.
(10) A copy of draft and final offer document along-with a soft copy shall also be forwarded to  the  Board,  simultaneously  with  filing  of  these  documents  with  the  designated  stock exchange.
(11)  The  issuer  filing  a  shelf  offer  document  shall  also  file  a  copy  of  an  information memorandum,  containing  all  material  facts  including  changes  in  the  financial  position  as have occurred between the previous offer or first offer or subsequent offer of municipal debt securities, with the recognised stock exchanges and the Board and in case the issuer is a body corporate to whom the Companies Act, 2013 applies such issuer shall also file the same with the Registrar of Companies.
(12) The lead manager shall, furnish to the Board a due diligence certificate as per Schedule II of these regulations with the offer document prior to opening of the public issue: Provided that where the issuer is a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 applies, the  lead  manager  shall,  prior  to  filing  of  the  final  offer  document  with  the  Registrar  of Companies,  furnish  to  the  Board  a  due  diligence  certificate  as  per  Schedule  II  of  these regulations.
(13) The debenture trustee, shall, prior to the opening of the public issue, furnish to the Board a due diligence certificate as per Schedule III of these regulations.
(14) The issuer and the lead manager(s) shall ensure that the offer documents are hosted on the websites as required under these regulations and its contents are the same as the versions as filed with the Registrar of Companies, Board and the stock exchanges, as applicable.
(15) The lead manager(s) and the stock exchanges shall provide copies of the offer document to the public as and when requested and may charge a reasonable sum for providing a copy of the same.] 15[Period of subscription
8.  (1)  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  these  regulations,  public  issue  of  municipal  debt securities shall be kept open for at least three working days.
(2) The issuer may extend the bidding period disclosed in the offer document, in case of force majeure,  banking  strike  or  similar  circumstances,  for  a  minimum  period  of  three  working days.] Advertisements for public issues.
9. (1)The issuer may make an advertisement in a national daily with wide circulation, on or before the issue opening date and such advertisement shall, amongst other things, contain the disclosures as per Schedule IV.
(2) No issuer shall issue an advertisement which is misleading in material particular or which contain any information in a distorted manner or which is manipulative or deceptive.
(3)  The  advertisement  shall  be  truthful,  fair  and  clear  and  shall  not  contain  a  statement, promise or forecast which is untrue or misleading.
(4) Any advertisement issued by the issuer shall not contain any matters which are extraneous to the contents of the offer document. 16[***]
(6) Any promotional or educative advertisement issued by the issuer during the subscription period shall not make any reference to the issue of 17[municipal debt securities] or be used for solicitation. 18[term sheet] and application forms.
10. (1) The issuer and 19[lead manager] shall ensure that: (a) every application form issued by the issuer is accompanied by a copy of the 20[term sheet]; (b) the 21[term sheet] shall not contain matters which are extraneous to the contents of the 22[offer document]; (c) adequate space shall be provided in the application form to enable the investors to fill in various details like name, address, etc: 23[Provided  that  where  the  issuer  is  a  body  corporate  to  which  the  Companies  Act,  2013 applies, the term sheet may be read as abridged prospectus]
(2) The issuer may provide the facility for subscription of application in electronic mode. Minimum subscription.
11. (1) The issuer may decide the amount of minimum subscription which it seeks to raise by issue of 24[municipal] debt securities and disclose the same in the offer document: Provided such minimum subscription limit shall not be less than seventy five per cent of the issue size.
(2)  In  the  event  of  non-receipt  of  minimum  subscription  as  specified  above,  all  application moneys  received  in  the  public  issue  shall  be  refunded  forthwith  to  the  applicants,  within twelve days from the date of the closure of the issue.
(3) In the event, there is a delay by the issuer in making the aforesaid refund, then the issuer shall refund the subscription amount along with interest at the rate of ten per cent. per annum for the delayed period. 25[Over subscription
11A.  (1)  Issuers  shall  be  allowed  to  retain  the  over-subscription  money  up  to  100%  of  the Base  Issue size  but  not  exceeding the  rated size  or any lower limit  as specified in the offer document, if any.
(2) For the issuers filing a shelf offer document, oversubscription may be retained up to the total size of the shelf offer document.]
(3)  The  issuers  shall  maintain  a  bank  account  in  which  the  amount  raised  from  the  issue  shall  be transferred  immediately  after  the  closure  of  the  issue  and  such  amount  shall  only  be  utilised  for specified project(s): Provided  that  where  the  issuer  is  a  Corporate  Municipal  Entity,  the  issue  proceeds,  net  of  issue expenses, shall be used only for onward lending to municipalities, as disclosed in the offer document: Provided  further  that  where  the  issuer  is  a  corporate  municipal  entity,  it  shall  maintain  sufficient interest  margin  while  onward  lending  to  the  municipalities,  to  meet  its  operating  expenses  and obligations.
(4) The issuer shall establish a separate project implementation cell and designate a project officer who shall not be below the rank of deputy commissioner, who shall monitor the progress of the project(s) and shall ensure that the funds raised are utilised only for the project(s) for which the debt securities were issued: Provided that where the issuer is a corporate municipal entity, such requirement shall be complied by the Municipality which is being financed.
(5)  Issuer’s  contribution  for  each  project  shall  not  be  less  than  twenty  per  cent.  of  the  project  costs, which shall be contributed from their internal resources or grants:
12. (1) Allotment in the public issue of municipal debt securities should be made on the basis of date of upload of each application into the electronic book of the stock exchange: Provided  that  on  and  after  the  date  of  oversubscription,  the  allotments  may  be  made  to  the applicants on a proportionate basis upto the oversubscription limit.
(2) The issuer and lead manager(s) shall ensure that the municipal debt securities are allotted and/or application monies are refunded or unblocked within such period as may  be specified by the Board.
(3) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the allotment, credit of dematerialised securities and refund or unblocking of application monies, as may be applicable, are done electronically.
(4)  Where  the  securities  are  not  allotted  and/or  application  monies  are  not  refunded  or unblocked within the period stipulated in sub-regulation (2) above, the issuer shall undertake to pay interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum to the investors and within such time as disclosed in the offer document and the lead manager(s) shall ensure the same.] Underwriting.
13.  A  public  issue  of  27[municipal  debt  securities]  may  be  underwritten  by  an  underwriter registered  with  the  Board  and  in  such  a  case  adequate  disclosures  regarding  underwriting arrangements shall be disclosed in the offer document. Provided  that  where  the  issuer  is  a  corporate  municipal  entity,  contribution  of  the  concerned municipality, which is being financed by the corporate municipal entity,  shall not be less than twenty per cent. of the project costs, which shall be contributed from its internal resources or grants.
(6) The issuer shall disclose the  schedule of implementation of the project in the offer document in a tabular form and the funds raised by the issuer shall be utilized in accordance with the said schedule.” 28[MUNICIPAL DEBT SECURITIES ISSUED ON PRIVATE PLACEMENT BASIS] CHAPTER IV 29[Listing on private placement basis
14. An issuer may list its municipal debt securities issued on private placement basis through placement memorandum.] 30[Preliminary Placement Memorandum 14A (1) Prior to making a private placement of municipal debt securities which are proposed to be listed, the issuer shall file the preliminary placement memorandum with the Board and stock exchange(s) through the merchant banker registered with the Board.
(2) The merchant banker to the issue shall submit the following to the Board along with the preliminary placement memorandum,- (a) disclosures as specified in Schedule I and Schedule IA of these regulations; and (b) a due diligence certificate as per Form A of Schedule II.
(3) The Board may issue observations, if any, on the   preliminary placement memorandum within fifteen days from the later of the following dates: a) the date of receipt of the preliminary placement memorandum under sub-regulation
(1); or b) the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the issuer and/or merchant banker to the issue, where the Board has sought any clarification or additional information from them; or c)  the  date  of  receipt  of  clarification  or  information  from  any  regulator  or  agency, where  the  Board  has  sought  any  clarification  or  information  from  such  regulator  or agency; or d)  the  date  of  receipt  of  a  copy  of  in-principle  approval  letter  issued  by  the  stock exchange(s).
(4) The merchant banker to the issue, as the case may be, shall ensure that all comments are suitably incorporated in the preliminary placement memorandum prior to filing the placement memorandum  to  the Stock Exchange(s); and the merchant  banker to  the  issue shall provide the due diligence certificate as specified in Form B and Form C of Schedule II.
(5)  The  debenture  trustee  shall,  prior  to  the  opening  of  private  placement,  furnish  to  the Board a due diligence certificate as per Schedule III of these regulations. Minimum subscription.
15. The minimum subscription amount per investor shall be Rupees ten lakh.] REQUIREMENTS FOR BOTH PUBLIC ISSUES AND PRIVATE PLACEMENT CHAPTER V 31[Electronic issuance
16.  An  issuer  proposing  to  issue  municipal  debt  securities  may  make  the  same  through  the on-line  system  and  shall  comply  with  the  relevant  requirements  as  may  be  specified  by  the Board.] Buy-back.
17. The issuers may provide an option to buy-back the debt-securities at a value which shall not  be less than the face value of the debt  securities,  from  the investors  32[in the manner as specified by the Board from time to time]: Provided in such cases, appropriate disclosure shall be made in the offer document 33[Put or call option
17A. The issuer may recall municipal debt securities prior to maturity date at its option (call) or  provide  such  right  of  redemption  prior  to  maturity  date  (put)  to  all  the  investors  at  their option in the manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time: Provided  in  all  such  cases,  detailed  disclosure  shall  be  made  in  the  offer  document  or placement memorandum.] Prohibitions of mis-statements in the offer document 34[or placement memorandum].
18.  (1)  The  offer  document  35[or  term  sheet]  36[or  placement  memorandum]  shall  not  omit disclosure of a material fact which may make the statements made therein misleading 37[***].
(2)  The  offer  document  or  38[term  sheet]  or  any  advertisement  issued  by  an  issuer  in connection  with  a  public  issue  of  debt  securities  shall  not  contain  any  false  or  misleading statement.
39[(3)  The  offer  document  or  placement  memorandum  shall  contain  all  material  disclosures which are true, correct and adequate to enable the applicants to take an informed investment decision.] 40[Utilization of issue proceeds.
18A. (1) The funds raised from issue of municipal debt securities shall be used only for the purposes  indicated  under  the  objects  stipulated  in  the  offer  document  or  placement memorandum.
(2) Where the proceeds of the issue are earmarked for a defined project or a set of projects, prior requisite approvals, if applicable shall be obtained from the concerned authorities.
(3) The issuers shall maintain a bank account in which the amount raised from the issue shall be  immediately  transferred  after  the  closure  of  the  issue  and  such  amount  shall  only  be utilised for the indicated project(s): Provided  further  that  the  merchant  banker  to  the  issue,  in  case  of  private  placement,  shall confirm to the bankers to the issue by way of copies of listing and trading approvals that all formalities  in  connection  with  the  issue  have  been  completed  and  that  the  banker  is  free  to release the money to the issuer or release the money for refund in case of failure of the issue.
(4)  The  issuer  shall  disclose  the  schedule  of  implementation  of  the  project  in  the  offer document  or  placement  memorandum  in  a  tabular  form  and  the  funds  raised  by  the  issuer shall be utilized in accordance with the said Schedule. Issuer contribution
18B. The contribution of the issuer for each issuance of municipal debt securities shall not be less than twenty per cent. of the project costs, which shall be contributed from their internal resources or grants that may be in cash or kind.] 41[Creation of Escrow Accounts
19.  The  issuer  shall  create  a  structured  payment  mechanism  and  maintain  specific  escrow accounts for the purpose of debt servicing of the municipal debt securities as specified by the Board from time to time.] 42[Trust deed.
20. (1) A trust deed for securing the issue of  municipal debt securities shall be executed by the issuer in favour of the debenture trustee.
(2)  The  trust  deed  shall  contain  such  clauses  as  may  be  specified  in  Schedule  IV  of  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993: Provided that in case of private placement by a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 applies, the trust deed shall, in-addition contain such clauses as required under section 71  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  and  the  Companies  (Share  Capital  and  Debentures)  Rules
2014. (3) The trust deed shall not contain a clause which has the effect of: (a) limiting or extinguishing  the obligations and liabilities of the debenture trustees or the issuer in relation to any rights or interests of the investors; (b) limiting or restricting or waiving the provisions of the Act, or Securities Contracts (Regulation)  Act,  1956  or  the  Depositories  Act,  1996,  and  the  regulations  and circulars or guidelines issued by the Board from time to time; (c) indemnifying the debenture trustees or the issuer for loss or damage caused by their act of negligence or commission or omission.
(4) The issue proceeds shall not be utilised until the Trust deed is executed.] (b) (c) 43[Redemption and roll-over.
21. (1) The issuer shall redeem the municipal debt securities in terms of the offer document or placement memorandum.
(2)  Where  the  issuer  desires  to  roll-over  the  municipal  debt  securities  issued,  it  shall  do  so only  upon passing of a special resolution  to  that effect  and give twenty  one days’ notice of the proposed roll over to the holders of municipal debt securities: Provided  that,  if  the  holders  of  municipal  debt  securities  do  not  provide  consent  for  the proposed  roll  over  within  the  notice  period,  the  issuer  shall  redeem  the  municipal  debt securities of such holders.
(3) The notice referred to in sub- regulation (2) shall contain disclosures with regard to credit rating and the rationale for roll-over.
(4) The issuer shall, prior to sending the notice to holders of municipal debt securities, file a copy of the notice and proposed resolution with the stock exchanges where such securities are listed, for dissemination of the same to the public on their websites.
(5)  The  municipal  debt  securities  issued  can  be  rolled  over  subject  to  the  following conditions: (a)  the  roll-over  is  approved  by  a  special  resolution  passed  by  the  holders  of  such municipal debt securities having the consent of not less than 75% of the holders by value of such municipal debt securities: (b)  at  least  one  rating  is  obtained  from  a  credit  rating  agency  within  a  period  of  six months prior to the due date of redemption and is disclosed in the notice referred to in sub-regulation (2); (c) fresh trust deed shall be executed at the time of such roll over or the existing trust deed may be continued if the trust deed provides for such continuation;
(6)  The  issuer  shall  redeem  the  municipal  debt  securities  of  all  the  holders,  who  have  not given their positive consent to the roll-over.] 44[Face value of municipal debt securities
22.  The  face  value  of  municipal  debt  securities  shall  be  disclosed  in  offer  document  or placement memorandum in the manner as specified by the Board. Day count convention
22A.  The  day  count  convention  for  calculation  of  interest  payments  for  municipal  debt securities shall be Actual/Actual and shall be calculated in manner as specified by the Board. Prohibition on payment of incentives
22B.  Any  person  connected  with  the  issue  shall  not  offer  any  incentive,  whether  direct  or indirect,  in  any  manner,  whether  in  cash  or  kind  or  services  or  otherwise  to  any  person  for making  an  application  in  the  issue,  except  for  fees  or  commission  for  services  rendered  in relation to the issue.] CONDITIONS FOR CONTINUOUS LISTING AND TRADING OF 45[MUNICIPAL] CHAPTER VI DEBT SECURITIES 46[Continuous listing conditions.
23.  (1)  The  issuer  making  public  issues  of  municipal  debt  securities  or  seeking  listing  of municipal debt securities issued on private placement basis, shall comply with the conditions of  listing  specified  in  Schedule  V  of  these  regulations  including  continuous  disclosure  and other requirements specified by the Board from time to time.
(2) Where the issuer is a body corporate to whom the Companies Act, 2013 applies, one-third of  its  Board  shall  comprise  of  independent  directors,  as  defined  in  section  149  of  the Companies Act, 2013.
(3)  Any  change  in  rating  shall  be  promptly  disseminated  in  such  manner  as  the  stock exchange where such securities are listed may determine from time to time.
(4)  The  issuer,  the  respective  debenture  trustees,  and  stock  exchanges  shall  disseminate  all information  and  reports  regarding  municipal  debt  securities  including  compliance  reports filed  by  the  issuers  and  the  debenture  trustees,  to  the  investors  and  the  general  public  by placing them on their websites.
(5) The information referred to in sub-regulation (3) shall also be placed on the websites of the debenture trustee, the issuer and the stock exchanges.] 47[Accounting and audit.
24.  (1)  An  issuer  shall  prepare  accounts  in  any  of  the  manner  specified  in  clause  (b)  of regulation 4: Provided  that  in  case  the  Issuer  is  a  body  corporate  to  which  the  Companies  Act,  2013 applies,  the  accounts  shall  be  prepared  in  accordance  with  section  129  and  134  of  the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder.
(2) In case of the issuer being a municipality, the accounts of the issuer shall be audited by the  persons  appointed  by  the  municipal  corporations,  as  permissible  under  its  constitution document: Provided  that  in  case  the  issuer  is  a  body  corporate  to  which  the  Companies  Act,  2013 applies, the accounts of the issuer shall be audited by an auditor, in terms of section 139 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules made thereunder.] 48[Trading and reporting of municipal debt securities.
25.  (1)  The  trades  of  listed  municipal  debt  securities  shall  be  cleared  and  settled  through  a recognised clearing corporation in the manner specified by the Board.
(2)  In  case  of  trades  in  municipal  debt  securities  which  have  been  made  over  the  counter, such  trades  shall  be  reported  on  a  recognised  stock  exchange  having  a  nationwide  trading terminal or such other platform as may be specified by the Board from time to time.
(3)  The  information  in  respect  of  issues  such  as  issuer  details,  instrument  details,  ratings, rating migration, coupon, buyback etc.  shall be required to be reported to a common database as may be specified by the Board.] OBLIGATIONS OF INTERMEDIARIES AND ISSUERS CHAPTER VII 49[Obligations of debenture trustee.
26.    (1)  The  debenture  trustee  shall  be  vested  with  the  requisite  powers  for  protecting  the interest of holders of municipal debt securities: Provided that, where the issuer is a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 applies such powers shall include a right to appoint a nominee director on the Board of the issuer, in consultation with institutional holders of such securities.
(2) The debenture trustee shall carry out its duties and perform its functions in terms of these regulations,  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Debenture  Trustees)  Regulations, 1993,  the  trust  deed  and  the  offer  document/placement  memorandum,  with  due  care, diligence and loyalty.
(3) The debenture trustee shall monitor the separate escrow account maintained in respect of the earmarked revenue.
(4) The debenture trustee shall ensure disclosure of all material events on an ongoing basis.
(5) The debenture trustee shall supervise the implementation of the obligations cast in terms of provisions of these regulations.] 50[Obligations of the issuer and merchant banker.
27.  (1)  The  issuer  shall  disclose  all  the  material  facts  in  the  offer  documents  issued  or distributed to the public and shall ensure that all the disclosures made in the offer document are true, fair and adequate and there is no mis-leading or untrue statements or mis-statement in the offer document.
(2)  The  merchant  banker(s)  shall  verify  and  confirm  that  the  disclosures  made  in  the  offer documents are true, fair and adequate and ensure that the issuer is in compliance with these regulations.
(3)  The  merchant  banker(s)  shall  ensure  that  all  transaction  specific  disclosures  required  in Schedule I of these regulations are complied with: Provided that where the issuer is a body corporate to which the Companies Act, 2013 applies, the merchant banker(s) shall also ensure that the disclosures under Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder are complied with.
(4) The issuer shall treat the applicants in a public issue of municipal debt securities in a fair and equitable manner as per the procedures as may be specified by the Board.
(5) The merchant bankers shall be responsible for the due diligence in respect of assignments undertaken by them in respect of issue, offer and distribution of securities to the public.
(6)  There  shall  be  no  conflict  of  interest  between  the  lead  manager(s)  and  the  issuer  or  its group companies in accordance with the applicable regulations.] 51[CHAPTER VIIA PROCEDURE IN CASE OF VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS Directions by the Board
27A. Without  prejudice  to  the action under section 11, 11A, 11 B, 11D, sub- section (3) of section  12,  Chapter  VIA  and  section  24  of  the  Act  or  section  439  of  the  Companies  Act, 2013, the Board may suo-motu or upon receipt of information or on completion or pendency of  inspection  or  investigation,  in  the  interests  of  the  securities  market,  issue  or  pass  such directions as it deems fit including any or all of the following: (a)  direct the issuer to refund the application monies to the applicants in a public issue; (b) direct  the  persons  concerned  not  to  further  deal  in  securities  in  any  particular manner; (c)  direct  the  persons  concerned  not  to  access  the  securities  market  for  a  specified period; (d) restrain  the  issuer  or  its  promoters  or  directors  from  making  further  issues  of securities; (e)  direct the person concerned to sell or divest the securities; (f)  direct  the  issuer  or  the  depository  not  to  give  effect  transfer  or  directing  further freeze of transfer of securities; (g) any  other  direction  which  Board  may  deem  fit  and  proper  in  the  circumstances  of the case: Provided  that  the  Board  shall,  either  before  or  after  issuing  such  directions,  give  an opportunity of being heard to the persons against whom the directions are issued or proposed to be issued: Provided further that if any ex-parte direction is required to be urgent issued, the Board may give post decisional hearing to the affected person: Provided also that where the issuer is a Municipality, the Board may communicate the instances of violation or non-compliance etc. if any, to the Central Government and the concerned State Government.] POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 52[CHAPTER VII-B Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
27B. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)  Any  exemption  granted  by  the  Board  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  subject  to  the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. testing  environment  where  new  products,  processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  may  be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time,  for furthering innovation  in  the  securities  market,  subject  to  such  conditions  as  may  be  specified  by  the Board.] 53[***] CHAPTER VIII MISCELLANEOUS Power to remove difficulties.
29. In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  interpretation  or  application  of  the provisions  of  these  regulations,  the  Board  shall  have  the  power  to  issue  directions  through guidance notes or circulars: Provided  that  where  any  direction  is  issued  by  the  Board  in  a  specific  case  relating  to interpretation or application of any provision of these regulations, it shall be done only after affording  a  reasonable  opportunity  of  being  heard  to  the  concerned  persons  and  after recording reasons for the direction. 54[Power to relax strict enforcement of Regulations
3.  These regulations shall be applicable to buy-back of shares or other specified securities  of  a  company  in  accordance  with  the  applicable  provisions  of  the Companies Act. include equity shares having superior voting rights.] Conditions and requirements for buy-back of shares and specified securities:
4. (i) The maximum limit of any buy-back shall be twenty-five per cent or less of the aggregate of paid-up capital and free reserves of the company2[, based on both standalone and consolidated financial statements of the company]: year,  the  reference  to  twenty-five  per  cent  in  this  regulation  shall  be construed with respect to its total paid-up equity capital in that financial year; 3[(ii) The ratio of the aggregate of secured and unsecured debts owed by the company to the paid-up capital and free reserves after buy-back shall,- a)  be  less  than  or  equal  to  2:1,  based  on  both  standalone  and consolidated financial statements of the company: Provided  that  if  a  higher  ratio  of  the  debt  to  capital  and  free reserves for the company has been notified under the Companies Act, 2013, the same shall prevail; or b)  be  less  than  or  equal  to  2:1,  based  on  both  standalone  and consolidated financial statements of the company, after excluding financial  statements  of  all  subsidiaries  that  are  non-banking financial companies and housing finance companies regulated by Reserve Bank of India or National Housing Bank, as the case may be: Provided  that  buy-back  of  securities  shall  be  permitted  only  if  all such  excluded  subsidiaries  have  their  ratio  of  aggregate  of secured  and  unsecured  debts  to  the  paid-up  capital  and  free reserves of not more than 6:1 on standalone basis.] (iii)       All shares or other specified securities for buy-back shall be fully paid-up. (iv)  A  company  may  buy-back  its  shares  or  other  specified  securities  by  any one of the following methods: a) from  the  existing  share  holders  or  other  specified  securities holders  on a proportionate basis through the tender offer; b) from the open market through— i) ii) book-building process, stock exchange; c) from odd-lot holders: 4[ Provided that the buyback from open market shall be less than fifteen  per  cent  of  the  paid  up  capital  and  free  reserves  of  the company,  based  on  both  standalone  and  consolidated financial statements of the company.] (v)       A  company  shall  not  buy-back  its  shares  or  other  specified  securities  so as  to  delist  its  shares  or  other  specified  securities  from  the  stock exchange. (vi)  A company shall not buy-back its shares or other specified securities from any  person  through  negotiated  deals,  whether  on  or  off  the  stock exchange  or through  spot transactions  or through  any  private arrangement. (vii)  A  company  shall  not  make  any  offer  of  buy-back  within  a  period  of  one year reckoned from the date of expiry of buyback period of the preceding offer of buy-back, if any. (viii)  A  company  shall  not allow  buy-back  of  its  shares  unless  the  consequent reduction of its share capital is effected. (ix)  A company may undertake a buy-back of its own shares or other specified securities out of— (a) its free reserves; (b) the securities premium account; or (c) the  proceeds  of  the  issue  of  any  shares  or  other  specified securities: Provided that no such buy-back shall be made out of the proceeds of  an  earlier  issue  of  the  same  kind  of  shares  or  same  kind  of  other specified securities. (x)       No  company  shall  directly  or  indirectly  purchase  its  own  shares  or  other specified securities: (a)  through  any  subsidiary  company  including  its  own  subsidiary companies; (b) through  any investment  company  or  group  of investment companies; or (c)  if  a  default  is  made  by  the  company  in  the  repayment  of  deposits accepted  either  before  or  after the  commencement  of  the Companies  Act, interest  payment thereon, redemption  of debentures  or  preference  shares  or  payment  of  dividend  to  any shareholder,  or  repayment  of  any  term  loan  or  interest  payable thereon to any financial institution or banking company: Provided  that  the  buy-back  is  not  prohibited,  if  the  default  is remedied  and  a  period  of  three  years  has  lapsed  after  such  default ceased to subsist. General compliance and filing requirements for buy-back:
5. (i)  The company shall not authorise any buy-back (whether by way of tender offer or from open market or odd lot) unless: a) The buy-back is authorised by the company's articles; b) A  special  resolution  has  been  passed  at  a  general  meeting  of the company authorising the buy-back: Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to a case where the buy-back is, ten per cent or less of the total paid-up equity capital and free reserves of the company5[, based on both standalone and consolidated financial statements of the company]; and such buy-back has been authorised by the board of directors by means of a resolution passed at its meeting. (ii) Every buy-back shall be completed within a period of one year from the date  of  passing  of  the  special  resolution  at  general  meeting,  or  the resolution  passed  by  the  board  of  directors  of  the  company,  as  the case may be. (iii) The  company  shall,  after  expiry  of  the  buy-back  period,  file  with  the Registrar  of  Companies  and  the  Board,  a  return  containing  such particulars relating to the buy-back within thirty days of such  expiry, in the  format  as  specified  in  the  Companies  (Share  Capital  and Debentures) Rules, 2014. (iv)  Where  a  special  resolution  is  required  for  authorizing  a  buy-back,  the explanatory  statement  to  be  annexed  with  the  notice  for  the  general meeting  pursuant  to  section  102  of  the  Companies  Act  shall  contain mandatory  disclosures  mentioned therein  and the following disclosures: Disclosures under sub-section 3 of section 68 of the Companies a) Act— i) ii) iii) iv) v) a full and complete disclosure of all material facts; the necessity for the buy-back; the class of shares or securities intended to be purchased under the buy-back; the amount to be invested under the buy-back; and the time-limit for completion of buy-back. b) Additional  disclosures  under  these  regulations  as  provided  in Schedule I, c) Provided  that  where  the  buy-back  is  through  tender  offer  from existing  securities  holders  ,  the  explanatory  statement  shall contain the following additional disclosures: i) the  maximum  price  at  which  the  buy-back  of  shares  or other specified securities shall be made and whether the board  of directors  of  the  company  is  being  authorised  at the  general  meeting  to  determine  subsequently  the specific price at which the buy-back may be made at the appropriate time; if the promoter intends to offer his shares or other specified ii) securities,  the  quantum  of  shares  or  other  specified securities  proposed  to  be  tendered  and  the  details  of  their transactions and their holdings for the last six months prior to  the  passing  of  the  special  resolution  for  buy-back including information of number of shares or other specified securities acquired, the price and the date of acquisition. (v) A  copy  of  the  resolution  passed  at  the  general  meeting  under  sub- section  (2)  of  section  68  of  the  Companies  Act  shall  be  filed  with  the Board  and  the  stock  exchanges  where  the  shares  or  other  specified securities of the company are listed, within seven days from the date of passing of the resolution. (vi)   Where  the  buy-back  is  from  open  market  either  through  the  stock exchange or through book building, the resolution of board of directors shall specify the maximum price at which the buy-back shall be made: Provided  that  where  there  is  a  requirement  for  the  Special Resolution as specified in clause (b) of sub-regulation 1 of regulation 5 of  these  Regulations,  the  special  resolution  shall  also  specify  the maximum price at which the buy-back shall be made. (vii)    A company, authorized by a resolution passed by the board of directors at its meeting to buy-back its shares or other specified securities under the  proviso  to  clause  (b)  of  sub-section  (2)  of  section  68  of  the Companies Act, shall file a copy of the resolution, with the Board and the stock exchanges, where the shares or other specified securities of the  company  are  listed,  within  two  working  days  of  the  date  of  the passing of the resolution. (viii)    No  insider  shall  deal  in  shares  or  other  specified  securities  of  the company  on  the  basis  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information relating  to  buy-back  of  shares  or  other  specified  securities  of  the company. CHAPTER III BUY-BACK THROUGH TENDER OFFER
6.  A  company  may  buy-back  its  shares  or  other  specified  securities  from  its existing  securities  holders    on  a  proportionate  basis  in  accordance  with  the provisions of this Chapter: Provided  that  fifteen  per  cent  of  the  number  of  securities  which  the company  proposes  to  buy-back  or  number  of  securities  entitled  as  per  their shareholding, whichever is higher, shall be reserved for small shareholders. Disclosures, filing requirements and timelines for public announcement:
7. (i)   The  company  which  has  been  authorised  by  a  special  resolution  or  a resolution  passed  by  the  board  of  directors,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall make  a  public  announcement  within  two  working  days  from  the  date  of declaration  of  results  of  the  postal  ballot  for  special  resolution/board  of directors  resolution  in  at  least  one  English  National  Daily,  one  Hindi National Daily and one Regional language daily, all with wide circulation at the place where the Registered Office of the company is situated and the said  public  announcement  shall  contain  all  the  material  information  as specified in Schedule II. (ii) A copy of the public announcement along with the soft copy, shall also be submitted to the Board, simultaneously, through a merchant banker. Disclosures, filing requirements and timelines for draft letter of offer
8. (i)   The  company  shall  within  five  working  days  of  the  public  announcement file the following with the Board: a) a  draft  letter  of  offer,  along  with  a  soft  copy,  containing disclosures  as  specified  in  Schedule  III  through  a  merchant banker who is not associated with the company. b) a  declaration  of  solvency  in  specified  form  and  in  a  manner provided in sub-section (6) of section 68 of the Companies Act. c) fees specified in Schedule V. (ii)   The  Board  may  provide  its  comments  on  the  draft  letter  of  offer  not later than seven working days of the receipt of the draft letter of offer: Provided  that  in  the  event  the  Board  has  sought  clarifications  or additional  information  from  the  merchant  banker  to  the  buy-back  offer,  the period of issuance of comments shall be extended to the seventh working day from  the  date  of  receipt  of  satisfactory  reply  to  the  clarification  or  additional information sought: Provided further that in the event the Board specifies any changes, the merchant  banker  to  the  buy-back  offer  and  the  company  shall  carryout  such changes in the letter of offer before it is dispatched to the shareholders. Offer procedure
9. (i)   A company making a buy-back offer shall announce a record date in the public  announcement  for  the  purpose  of  determining  the  entitlement  and the  names  of  the  security  holders,  who  are  eligible  to  participate  in  the proposed buy-back offer. (ii) The letter of offer along with the tender form shall be dispatched to the securities  holders  who  are  eligible  to  participate  in the buy-back  offer  as  per sub  regulation  (i),  not  later  than  five  working  days  from  the  receipt  of communication of comments from the Board. mode in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act. (b) On receipt of a request from any shareholder to receive a copy of the letter of offer in physical form, the same shall be provided. (c) The aforesaid shall be disclosed in the letter of offer. (iii) Even  if  an  eligible  public  shareholder  does  not  receive  the  tender offer/offer form, he may participate in the buy-back offer and tender shares in the manner as provided by the Board. (iv)  An  unregistered  shareholder  may  also  tender  his  shares  for  buy-back by  submitting  the  duly  executed  transfer  deed  for  transfer  of  shares  in  his name, along with the offer form and other relevant documents as required for transfer, if any. (v) The date of the opening of the offer shall be not later than five working days from the date of dispatch of the letter of offer. (vi) The  offer  for  buy-back  shall  remain  open  for  a  period  of  ten  working days. (vii)  The  company  shall  facilitate  tendering  of  shares  by  the  shareholders and  settlement  of  the  same,  through  the  stock  exchange  mechanism  in  the manner as provided by the Board. (viii)  The company shall accept shares or other specified securities from the securities holders on the basis of their entitlement as on record date. (ix) The  shares  proposed  to  be  bought  back  shall  be  divided  into  two categories;  (a)  reserved  category  for  small  shareholders  and  (b)  the  general category for other shareholders, and the entitlement of a shareholder in each category shall be calculated accordingly. together for identification  of  small  shareholder if  sequence  of Permanent  Account  Number  for  all  holders  is  matching.  Similarly,  in case  of  physical  shareholders,  if  the  sequence  of  names  of  joint holders  is  matching,  holding  under  such  folios  should  be  clubbed together for identification of small shareholder.’ (x) After accepting the shares or other specified securities tendered on the basis  of  entitlement,  shares  or  other  specified  securities  left  to  be  bought back, if any in one category shall first be accepted, in proportion to the shares or other specified securities tendered over and above their entitlement in the offer  by  securities  holders  in  that  category  and  thereafter  from  securities holders  who  have  tendered  over  and  above  their  entitlement  in  other category. (xi)  Escrow account (a) The  company  shall,  as  and  by  way  of  security  for  performance of its obligations under the regulations, on or before the opening of the offer, deposit in an escrow account such sum as specified in clause (b); (b) The escrow amount shall be payable in the following manner: (i) if the consideration payable does not exceed Rupees 100 crores; 25 per cent of the consideration payable; (ii) if the consideration payable exceeds Rupees 100 crores; 25  per  cent  upto  Rupees  100  crores  and  10  per  cent thereafter. (c) The escrow account referred to in this regulation shall consist of, (i) (ii) cash deposited with a scheduled commercial bank, or bank guarantee in favour of the merchant banker, or (iii) deposit  of  acceptable  securities  with  appropriate  margin, with the merchant banker, or (iv) a combination of (i), (ii) and (iii). maintained  in  an  interest  bearing  account, provided  that  the merchant banker  ensures  that  the  funds  are  available  at  the  time  of  making payment to shareholders. (d)  Where  the  escrow  account  consists  of  deposit  with  a  scheduled commercial bank, the company shall, while opening the account, empower  the  merchant  banker  to  instruct  the  bank  to  make payment the amount lying to the credit of the escrow account, as provided in the regulations. (e)  Where  the  escrow  account  consists  of  a  bank  guarantee,  such bank  guarantee  shall  be  in  favour  of  the  merchant  banker  and shall be valid until thirty days after the expiry of buyback period. (f) The  company  shall,  in  case  the  escrow  account  consists  of securities, empower the merchant banker to realise the value of such  escrow  account  by  sale  or  otherwise  and  if  there  is  any deficit on realisation of the value of the securities, the merchant banker shall be liable to make good any such deficit. (g) In  case  the  escrow  account  consists  of  bank  guarantee  or approved securities, these shall not be returned by the merchant banker till completion of all obligations under the regulations. (h)  Where  the  escrow  account  consists  of  bank  guarantee  or deposit  of  approved  securities,  the  company  shall  also  deposit with the bank in cash a sum of at least one per cent of the total consideration payable, as and by way of security for fulfillment of the obligations under the regulations by the company. (i) On  payment  of  consideration  to  all  the  securities  holders  who have accepted the offer and after completion of all formalities of buy-back, the amount, guarantee and securities in the escrow, if any, shall be released to the company. (j) The Board in the interest of the securities holders may in case of nonfulfillment  of  obligations  under  the  regulations  by  the company forfeit the escrow account either in full or in part. (xii)  The  amount  forfeited  under  clause  (j)  may  be  distributed  pro  rata amongst the  securities holders who accepted the offer and balance, if any, shall be utilised for investor protection. Closure and payment to securities holders:
10.  (i)   The company shall immediately after the date of closure of the offer, open a special account with a banker to an issue, registered with the Board and deposit  therein,  such  sum  as  would,  together  with  ninety  per  cent  of  the amount  lying  in  the  escrow  account,  make-up  the  entire  sum  due  and payable  as  consideration  for  buy-back  in  terms  of  these  regulations  and for this purpose, may transfer the funds from the escrow account. (ii)  The  company  shall  complete  the  verification  of  offers  received  and make payment of consideration to those holders of securities  whose offer has  been  accepted  and  return  the  remaining  shares  or  other  specified securities  to  the  securities  holders    within  seven  working  days  of  the closure of the offer. Extinguishment of certificate and other closure compliances:
11. (i)  The  company  shall  extinguish  and  physically  destroy  the  securities certificates  so  bought  back  in  the  presence  of  a  registrar  to  issue  or  the Merchant Banker and the Statutory Auditor within fifteen days of the date of acceptance of the shares or other specified securities. Provided that the company shall ensure that all the securities bought-back are extinguished within seven days of expiry of buy-back period. beyond seven days of expiry of buy-back period. (ii) The shares or other specified securities offered for buy-back if already dematerialised  shall  be  extinguished  and  destroyed  in  the  manner  specified under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Depositories  and Participants)  Regulations,  1996,  and the  bye-laws, the  circulars  and guidelines framed thereunder. (iii) The  company  shall,  furnish  a  certificate  to  the  Board  certifying compliance  as  specified  in  sub-regulation  (i)  above,  and  duly  certified  and verified by: a) the registrar and whenever there is no registrar, by the merchant banker; b) two directors of the company, one of whom shall be a managing director, where there is one; and c) the statutory auditor of the company, This  certificate  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Board  within  seven  days  of extinguishment and destruction of the certificates. (iv) The  company  shall  furnish  the  particulars  of  the  securities  certificates extinguished  and  destroyed  under  sub-regulation  (i),  to  the  stock  exchanges where the  shares  of the  company  are listed  within  seven  days  of extinguishment and destruction of the certificates. (v)  Where  a  company  buys  back  its  shares  or  other  specified  securities under these regulations, it shall maintain a register of the shares or securities so bought, the consideration paid for the shares or securities bought back, the date  of  cancellation  of  shares  or  securities,  the  date  of  extinguishing  and physically  destroying  the  shares  or  securities  and  such  other  particulars  as may be prescribed in sub-section (9) of section 68 of the Companies Act. Odd-lot buy-back
12. The provisions pertaining to buy-back through tender offer as specified in this  Chapter  shall  be  applicable  mutatis  mutandis  to  odd-lot  shares  or other specified securities. CHAPTER IV BUY-BACK FROM THE OPEN MARKET
13.  A  company  intending  to  buy-back  its  shares  or  other  specified  securities from the open market shall do so in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
14. The buy-back of shares or other specified securities from the open market may be in any one of the following methods: (a) (b) through stock exchange, book-building process.
15. The  company  shall  ensure  that  at  least  fifty  per  cent  of  the  amount earmarked  for  buy-back,  as  specified  in  the  resolution  of  the  board  of directors  or  the  special  resolution,  as  the  case  may  be,  is  utilized  for buying-back shares or other specified securities. Buy-back through stock exchange
16.  (i)   The buy-back shall be made only on stock exchanges having nationwide trading terminals; (ii) The  buy-back  of  the  shares  or  other  specified  securities  through  the stock exchange shall not be made from the promoters or persons in control of the company; (iii) The  buy-back  of  shares  or  other  specified  securities  shall  be  made  only through  the  order  matching  mechanism  except  ‘all  or  none’  order  matching system; (iv)  Disclosures, filing requirements and timelines of public announcement: a) The  company  shall  appoint  a  merchant  banker  and  make  a public announcement as referred to in regulation 7 pertaining to tender offer; b) The  public  announcement  shall  be  made  within  two  working days  from  the  date  of  passing  the  board  of  directors  resolution or  date  of  declaration  of  results  of  the  postal  ballot  for  special resolution, as relevant and shall contain disclosures as specified in  Schedule IV; c) Simultaneously with the issue of such public announcement, the company  shall  file  a  copy  of  the  public  announcement  with  the Board along with the fees specified in Schedule V; d) The  public  announcement  shall  also  contain  disclosures regarding  details  of  the  brokers  and  stock  exchanges  through which the buy-back of shares or other specified securities would be made; of offer/ letter of offer is required to be filed with the Board. Opening of the offer on stock exchange:
17.  (i)   The identity of the company as a purchaser shall appear on the electronic screen when the order is placed; (ii) The buy-back offer shall open not later than seven working days from the  date  of  public  announcement  and  shall  close  within  six  months  from  the date of opening of the offer. Subsequent compliances for open market buy-back through stock exchange:
18.  (i)   The  company  shall  submit  the  information  regarding  the  shares  or  other specified securities bought-back, to the stock exchange on a daily basis in such form as may be specified by the Board and the stock exchange shall upload the same on its official website immediately; (ii) The  company  shall  upload  the  information  regarding  the  shares  or other specified securities bought-back on its website on a daily basis.
19.  A  company  may  buy-back  its  shares  or  other  specified  securities  in physical form in the open market through stock exchange by following the procedure as provided hereunder: (i) A separate window shall be created by the stock exchange, which shall remain  open  during  the  period  of  buy-back,  for  buy-back  of  shares  or other specified securities in physical form. (ii) The  company  shall buy-back  shares  or other  specified  securities from eligible  shareholders  holding  physical  shares  through  the  separate window  specified  in  sub-regulation  (i),  only  after  verification  of  the identity proof and address proof by the broker. (iii) The price at which the shares or other specified securities are bought back shall be the volume weighted average price of the shares or other specified securities bought-back, other than in the physical form, during the  calendar  week  in  which  such  shares  or  other  specified  securities were received by the broker: Provided that the price of shares or other specified securities tendered during  the  first  calendar  week  of  the  buy-back  shall  be  the  volume  weighted average  market  price  of  the  shares  or  other  specified  securities  of  the company during the preceding calendar week. back  in  the  normal  market  during  calendar  week,  the  preceding  week  when the  company  has  last  bought  back  the  shares  or  other  specified  securities may be considered. Escrow account for open market buy-back through stock exchange:
20.  (i)  The company shall, before opening of the offer, create an escrow account towards  security for  performance  of its  obligations  under these regulations,  and  deposit  in  escrow  account  25  per  cent  of  the  amount earmarked for the buy-back  as specified in the  resolution  of the board of directors or the special resolution, as the case may be. (ii)  The  escrow  account  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (i)  may  be  in  the  form of,— a) b) cash deposited with any scheduled commercial bank; or bank guarantee issued in favour of the merchant banker by any scheduled commercial bank. regulation 9. (iii)  For  such  part  of  the  escrow  account  as  is  in  the  form  of  a  cash  deposit with  a  scheduled  commercial  bank,  the  company  shall  while  opening  the account, empower the merchant banker to instruct the bank to make payment of  the  amounts  lying  to  the  credit  of  the  escrow  account,  to  meet  the obligations arising out of the buy-back. (iv) For  such  part  of  the  escrow  account  as  is  in  the  form  of  a  bank guarantee: a) the  same  shall  be  in  favour  of  the  merchant  banker  and  shall  be kept  valid  for  a  period  of  thirty  days  after  the  expiry  of  buyback period  of  the  offer  or  till  the  completion  of  all  obligations  under these regulations, whichever is later. b) the  same  shall  not  be  returned  by  the  merchant  banker  till completion of all obligations under the regulations. (v)  Where part of the escrow account is in the form of a bank guarantee, the company shall deposit with a scheduled commercial bank, in cash, a sum of  at  least  2.5  per  cent  of  the  total  amount  earmarked  for  buy-back  as specified in the resolution of the board of directors or the special resolution, as the  case  may  be,  as  and  by  way  of  security  for  fulfillment  of  the  obligations under the regulations by the company. (vi) The  escrow  amount  may  be  released  for  making  payment  to  the shareholders subject to at least 2.5 per cent of the amount earmarked for buy- back  as  specified  in  the  resolution  of  the  board  of  directors  or  the  special resolution, as the case may be,  remaining in the escrow account at all points of time. (vii)  On  fulfilling  the  obligation  specified  in  regulation  15,  the  amount  and the  guarantee  remaining  in  the  escrow  account,  if  any,  shall  be  released  to the company. (viii) In the event of non-compliance with regulation 15, the Board may direct the  merchant  banker  to  forfeit  the  escrow  account,  subject  to  a  maximum of
2.5  per  cent  of  the  amount  earmarked  for  buy-back  as  specified  in  the resolution of the board of directors or the special resolution, as the case may be, except in cases where,- a) volume weighted average market price (VWAMP) of the shares or other specified securities of the company during the buy-back period  was  higher  than  the  buy-back  price  as  certified  by  the Merchant  banker  based  on  the  inputs  provided  by  the  Stock Exchanges. b) sell  orders  were  inadequate  despite  the  buy  orders  placed  by the company as certified by the Merchant banker based on the inputs provided by the Stock Exchanges. c) such  circumstances  existed  which  were  beyond  the  control  of the  company  and in the  opinion  of the  Board  merit consideration. (ix) In  the  event  of  forfeiture  for  non-fulfillment  of  obligations  specified  in sub-regulation (viii) of this regulation, the amount forfeited shall be deposited in  the  Investor  Protection  and  Education  Fund  of  Securities  and  Exchange Board of India. Extinguishment  of  certificates  for  open  market  buy-back  through  stock exchange:
21. (i)   Subject  to  the  provisions  of  sub-regulation (ii)  and  (iii),  the  provisions of regulation 11  pertaining to the  extinguishment of certificates  for tender offers shall apply for extinguishment of certificates under this Chapter. (ii)  The  company  shall  complete  the  verification  of  acceptances  within fifteen days of the payout. (iii)  The  company  shall  extinguish  and  physically  destroy  the  securities certificates  so  bought  back    during    the    month    in    the    presence    of    a Merchant    Banker    and    the    Statutory  Auditor,  on  or  before  the  fifteenth day of the succeeding month: Provided    that    the    company    shall    ensure    that    all    the    securities bought-back    are    extinguished  within  seven  days  of  expiry  of  buy-back period. Buy-back through book building
22.  A company may buy-back its shares or other specified securities through the book-building process as provided hereunder: (i)  The Special resolution or the board of directors resolution, as the case may be, shall be passed in accordance with regulation 5. (ii)  Disclosures, filing requirements and timelines for public announcement: (a) The company shall appoint a merchant banker and make a public announcement as referred to in regulation 7. (b) The disclosures in the public announcement shall also be in accordance with Schedule II. (c) The  public  announcement  shall  be  made  at  least  seven days prior to the commencement of buy-back. (iii)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  clause  (a)  and  clause  (b)  of  this  sub- regulation,  the  provisions  of  sub-regulation  (xi)  of  regulation  9  shall apply: (a) The deposit in the escrow account shall be made before the date of the public announcement. (b) The  amount  to  be  deposited  in  the escrow  account  shall be  determined  with  reference  to  the  maximum  price  as specified in the public announcement. (c) of sub-regulation (xi) of regulation 9. (iv)  A copy of the public announcement shall be filed with the Board within two  days  of  such  announcement  along  with  the  fees  as  specified  in Schedule V. (v) The public announcement shall also contain the detailed methodology of the book-building process, the manner of acceptance, the format of acceptance to be sent by the securities holders  pursuant to the public announcement and the details of bidding centres. (vi) The  book-building  process  shall  be  made  through  an  electronically linked transparent facility. (vii) The  number  of  bidding  centers  shall  not  be  less  than  thirty  and  there shall  be  at  least  one  electronically  linked  computer  terminal  at  all  the bidding centers. (viii) The offer for buy-back shall remain open to the securities holders  for a period not less than fifteen days and not exceeding thirty days. (ix) The  merchant  banker  and  the  company  shall  determine  the  buy-back price based on the acceptances received. (x) The  final  buy-back  price,  which  shall  be  the  highest  price  accepted shall  be  paid  to  all  holders  whose  shares  or  other  specified  securities have been accepted for buy-back. (xi) The  provisions  of  sub-regulation  (ii)  of  regulation  10  pertaining  to verification  of  acceptances  and  the  provisions  of  regulation  10 pertaining to opening of special account and payment of consideration shall be applicable mutatis mutandis. Extinguishment of certificates
23. The provisions pertaining to extinguishment of certificates for tender offer shall  be  applicable  mutatis  mutandis  to  the  buy-back  through  book building. CHAPTER V GENERAL OBLIGATIONS Obligations of the company for all buy-back procedure:
24. (i) The company shall ensure that,— a) the  letter  of  offer,  the  public  announcement  of  the  offer  or  any other  advertisement,  circular,  brochure,  publicity  material  shall contain  true,  factual  and  material  information  and  shall  not contain  any  misleading  information  and  must  state  that  the directors  of  the  company  accept  the  responsibility  for  the information contained in such documents; b) the  company  shall  not  issue  any  shares  or  other  specified securities  including  by  way  of  bonus  till  the  date  of  expiry  of buyback period for the offer made under these regulations; c) the company shall pay the consideration only by way of cash; d) the  company  shall  not  withdraw  the  offer  to  buy-back  after  the draft letter  of  offer is filed  with the  Board  or  public announcement of the offer to buy-back is made; e) the  promoter(s)  or  his/their  associates  shall  not  deal  in  the shares or other specified securities of the company in the stock exchange  or  off-market,  including  inter-  se  transfer  of  shares among the promoters during the period from the date of passing the resolution of the board of directors or the special resolution, as the case may be, till the closing of the offer. f) the company shall not raise further capital for a period of one year from  the  expiry  of  buyback  period,    except  in  discharge  of  its subsisting obligations. (ii) No  public  announcement  of  buy-back  shall  be  made  during  the pendency  of  any  scheme  of  amalgamation  or  compromise  or  arrangement pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act. (iii) The  company  shall  nominate  a  compliance  officer  and  investors service centre for compliance with the buy-back regulations and to redress the grievances of the investors. (iv) The  particulars  of  the  security  certificates  extinguished  and  destroyed shall be furnished by the company to the stock exchanges where the shares or  other  specified  securities  of  the  company  are  listed  within  seven  days  of extinguishment and destruction of the certificates. (v) The company shall not buy-back the locked-in shares or other specified securities  and  non-transferable  shares  or  other  specified  securities  till  the pendency of the lock-in or till the shares or other specified securities become transferable. (vi) The company shall within two days of expiry of buy-back period issue a public advertisement in a national daily, inter alia, disclosing: a) b) c) d) number of shares or other specified securities bought; price at which the shares or other specified securities bought; total amount invested in the buy-back; details  of  the  securities  holders    from  whom  shares  or  other specified  securities  exceeding  one  per  cent  of  total  shares  or other specified securities were bought back; and e) the  consequent  changes  in  the  capital  structure  and  the shareholding pattern after and before the buy-back. (vii)  The  company  in  addition  to  these  regulations  shall  comply  with  the provisions of buy-back as contained in the Companies Act and other applicable laws. Obligations of the merchant banker:
25. The merchant banker shall ensure that— (i) (ii) the company is able to implement the offer; the provision relating to escrow account has been complied with; (iii) firm  arrangements for  monies for  payment to fulfill the obligations under the offer are in place; (iv) the  public  announcement  of  buy-back  is  made  in  terms  of  the regulations; (v) the letter of offer has been filed in terms of the regulations; (vi) a due diligence certificate along with the draft letter of offer has been furnished to the Board; (vii) the contents of the public announcement of offer as well as the letter of offer are true, fair and adequate and quoting the source wherever necessary; (viii)  due compliance of sections 68, 69 and 70 of the Companies Act and any other laws or rules as may be applicable in this regard has been made; (ix) the  bank  with  whom  the  escrow  or  special  amount  has  been deposited  releases  the  balance  amount  to  the  company  only upon  fulfillment  of  all  obligations  by  the  company  under  the regulations; (x) a  final  report  is  submitted  to  the  Board  in  the  form  specified within fifteen days from the date of expiry of buyback period. 6[CHAPTER V-A POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
25A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but  not  exceeding  twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects relating  to  testing  new  products,  processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  in  live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. live testing environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board.] CHAPTER VI MISCELLANEOUS Powers of the Board to issue directions
26. (i) The Board may, without prejudice to its right to initiate any other enforcement  action,  including    prosecution    under  section  24  of  the  Act, give  such  directions  in  the  interest  of  investors  in  securities  and  the securities market, as it deems fit, including: (a) prohibiting  the person concerned from  cancelling  any  of  the  securities bought  back  in  violation  of  the  provisions  of  these  regulations  or  the Companies Act; (b) directing  the  person  concerned  to  sell  or  divest  the  shares  or  other specified  securities  acquired  in  violation  of  the  provisions  of  these regulations or any other law or regulations; (c) restraining the company from making a further offer for buy-back; (ii) A  copy  of  such  direction  issued  by  the  Board  shall  also  be forwarded to Registrar of Companies. Power of the Board to remove difficulties
27. In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation or application of the provisions  of  these  regulations,  the  Board  may  issue  clarifications  or guidelines from time to time. Power to relax strict enforcement of the regulations.
28. (i) The  Board  may,  in  the  interest  of  investors  and  the  securities market,  relax  the  strict  enforcement  of  any  requirement  of  these regulations except the provisions incorporated from the Companies Act, if the Board is satisfied that: (a) (b) the requirement is procedural in nature; or the requirement may cause undue hardship to investors; (ii) For  seeking  relaxation  under  sub-regulation  (i),  the  company shall  file  an  application  with  the  Board,  supported  by  a  duly  sworn affidavit,  giving  details  and  the  grounds  on  which  such  relaxation  has been sought. (iii) The  company  shall  along  with  the  application  referred  to  under sub-regulation (ii),   pay a non-refundable fee of rupees fifty thousand, by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other  mode  allowed  by  RBI  or  by  way  of  a  banker’s  cheque  or  demand draft payable in Mumbai in favour of the Board. (iv) The  Board  may  after  affording  reasonable  opportunity  of  being heard  to  the  applicant  and  after  considering  all  the  relevant  facts  and circumstances,  pass  a  reasoned  order  either  granting  or  rejecting  the relaxation sought as expeditiously as possible. Repeal and savings
4. 10[(1) No issuer shall make any public issue of debt securities if as on the date of filing of draft offer document or final offer document as provided in these regulations: (a) (b) the  issuer  or  the  person  in  control  of  the  issuer  or  its  promoter  or  its  director  is restrained or prohibited or debarred by the Board from accessing the securities market or dealing in securities; or the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a wilful defaulter or it is in default of payment  of  interest  or  repayment  of  principal  amount  in  respect  of  debt  securities issued by it to the public, if any, for a period of more than six months.]
(2)  No  issuer  shall  make  a  public  issue  of  debt  securities  unless  following  conditions  are satisfied, as on the date of filing of draft offer document and final offer document as provided in these regulations, (a) it has made an application to one or more recognized stock exchanges for listing of such securities therein: Provided  that  where  the  application  is  made  to  more  than  one  recognized  stock exchanges, the issuer shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange: Provided  further  that  where  any  of  such  stock  exchanges  have  nationwide  trading terminals, theissuer shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange; as a designated stock exchange subject to the requirements of this regulation; (b) it has obtained in-principle approval for listing of its debt securities on the recognized stock exchanges where the application for listing has been made; (c) credit rating has been obtained from at least one credit rating agency registered with the Board and is disclosed in the offer document: Provided that where credit ratings are obtained from more than one credit rating agencies, all the ratings, including the unaccepted ratings, shall be disclosed in the offer document; (d)  it  has  entered  into  an  arrangement  with  a  depository  registered  with  the  Board  for dematerialization  of  the  debt  securities  that  are  proposed  to  be  issued  to  the  public,  in accordance with the Depositories Act,1996 and regulations made thereunder.
(3) The issuer shall appoint one or more merchant bankers registered with the Board at least one of whom shall be a lead merchant banker.
(4) The issuer shall appoint one or more debenture trustees in accordance with the provisions of 11[Section 71 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)] and Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993.
(5) The issuer shall not issue debt securities for providing loan to or acquisition of shares of any person who is part of the same group or who is under the same management. (a) two persons shall be deemed to be “part of the same group” if they belong to the same group  within  the  meaning  of  clause  (ef)  of  section  2  of  the  Monopolies  and  Restrictive Trade  Practices  Act,  1969  (54  of  1969)  or  if  they  own  “inter-connected  undertakings” within the meaning of clause (g) of section 2 of that Act; (b)  the  expression  “under  the  same  management”  shall  have  the  meaning  derived  from sub-section (1B) of section 370 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956). Disclosures in the offer document
5.  (1)  The  offer  document  shall  contain  all  material  disclosures  which  are  necessary  for  the subscribers of the debt securities to take an informed investment decision.
(2)  Without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of  sub-regulation  (1),  the  issuer  and  the  lead  merchant banker shall ensure that the offer document contains the following: 12[(a) disclosures specified in Companies Act, 2013 and Rules prescribed thereunder;] (b) disclosure specified in Schedule I of these regulations; (c) additional disclosures as may be specified by the Board. impact an investors’ investment decision. Filing of draft offer document
6.  (1)  No  issuer  shall  make  a  public  issue  of  debt  securities  unless  a  draft  offer  document  has been filed with the designated stock exchange through the lead merchant banker.
(2) The draft offer document  filed with the designated stock exchange shall be made public by posting the same on the website of the designated stock exchange for seeking public comments for  a  period  of  seven  working  days  from  the  date  of  filing  the  draft  offer  document  with  such exchange.
(3)  The  draft  offer  document  may  also  be  displayed  on  the  website  of  the  issuer,  merchant bankers and the stock exchanges where the debt securities are proposed to be listed.
(4)  The  lead  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  the  draft  offer  document  clearly  specifies  the names  and  contact  particulars  of  the  compliance  officer  of  the  lead  merchant  banker  and  the issuer including the postal and email address, telephone and fax numbers.
(5)  The  Lead  Merchant  Banker  shall  ensure  that  all  comments  received  on  the  draft  offer document are suitably addressed prior to the filing of the offer document with the Registrar of Companies.
(6)  A  copy  of  draft  and  final  offer  document  shall  also  be  forwarded  to  the  Board  for  its records,13[along  with  regulatory  fees  as  specified  in  Schedule  V]  simultaneously  with  filing  of these documents with designated stock exchange.
(7)  The  lead  merchant  banker  shall,  prior  to  filing  of  the  offer  document  with  the  Registrar  of Companies,  furnish  to  the  Board  a  due  diligence  certificate  as  per  Schedule  II  of  these regulations.
(8)  The  debenture  trustee  shall,  prior  to  the  opening  of  the  public  issue,  furnish  to  the Board a due diligence certificate as per Schedule III of these regulations. 14["Filing of Shelf Prospectus.
6A.  (1)  Without  prejudice  to  the  regulation  6,  following  companies  or  entities  may  file  shelf prospectus under section 31 of Companies Act, 2013 for public issuance of their debt securities,- a. Public financial institutions as defined under clause (72) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013, and scheduled banks as defined under clause (e) of section 2 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934; or b. Issuers authorized by the notification of Central Board of Direct Taxes to make public issue of tax free secured bonds, with respect to such tax free bond issuances; or c. Infrastructure Debt  Funds – Non-Banking Financial Companies regulated by Reserve Bank of India; or d. Non-Banking  Financial  Companies  registered  with  Reserve  Bank  of  India  and Housing  Finance Companies registered  with  National  Housing  Bank complying with the following criteria: i. having a net worth of at-least Rs.500 crore, as per the audited balance sheet of the preceding financial year; ii. iii. having consistent track record of distributable profit for the last three years; securities  issued  under  the  shelf  prospectus  have  been  assigned  a  rating  of  not less than "AA-" category or equivalent  by a credit rating agency registered with the Board; iv. no  regulatory  action  is  pending  against  the  company  or  its  promoters  or directors before the Board, Reserve Bank of India or National Housing Bank; v. the  issuer  has  not  defaulted  in  the  repayment  of  deposits  or  interest  payable thereon, redemption of debentures or preference shares or payment of dividend to any shareholder, or repayment of any term loan or interest payable thereon to any  public  financial  institution  or  banking  company,  in  the  last  three  financial years. or e. Listed entities complying with the following criteria: i. whose  public  issued  equity  shares  or  debt  securities  are  listed  on  recognized stock  exchange  for  a  period  of  at  least  three  years  immediately  preceding  the issue and have been complying with the listing agreement entered into between the  issuer  and  the  recognized  stock  exchanges  where  the  said  securities  of  the issuer are listed; ii. having a net worth of at-least Rs.500 crore, as per the audited balance sheet of the preceding financial year; iii. iv. having consistent track record of distributable profit for the last three years; securities  issued  under  the  shelf  prospectus  have  been  assigned  a  rating  of  not less than "AA-" category or equivalent  by a credit rating agency registered with the Board; v. no  regulatory  action  is  pending  against  the  company  or  its  promoters  or directors before the Board, Reserve Bank of India or National Housing Bank; vi. the  issuer  has  not  defaulted  in  the  repayment  of  deposits  or  interest  payable thereon, redemption of debentures or preference shares or payment of dividend to any shareholder, or repayment of any term loan or interest payable thereon to any  public  financial  institution  or  banking  company,  in  the  last  three  financial years.
(2) The issuer filing a shelf prospectus shall file a copy of an information memorandum with the recognised stock exchanges and the Board, immediately on filing the same with the Registrar.
(3) The information memorandum shall contain the disclosures specified in  15[***] Companies Act, 2013,  16[***] and rules made thereunder and shall include disclosures regarding summary term  sheet,  material  updations  including  revision  in  ratings,  if  any  along  with  the  rating rationale and financial ratios specified in Schedule I,  indicating the pre and post issue change.
(4) Not more than four issuances shall be made through a single shelf prospectus.] Mode of Disclosure of Offer Document
7. (1) The draft and final offer document shall be displayed on the websites of stock exchanges and shall be available for download in PDF / HTML formats.
(2) The offer document  shall be  filed with  the designated stock exchange, simultaneously  with filing  thereof  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies,  for  dissemination  on  its  website  prior  to  the opening of the issue.
(3) Where any person makes a request for a physical copy of the offer document, the same shall be provided to him by the issuer or lead merchant banker. Advertisements for Public issues
8.  (1)  The  issuer  shall  make  a  advertisement  in  an  national  daily  with  wide  circulation,  on  or before  the  issue  opening  date  and  such  advertisement  shall,  amongst  other  things,  contain  the disclosures as per Schedule IV.
(2)  No  issuer  shall  issue  an  advertisement  which  is  misleading  in  material  particular  or  which contains any information in a distorted manner or which is manipulative or deceptive.
(3) The advertisement shall be truthful, fair and clear and shall not contain a statement, promise or forecast which is untrue or misleading.
(4) Any advertisement issued by the issuer shall not contain any matters which are extraneous to the contents of the offer document.
(5)  The  advertisement  shall  urge  the  investors  to  invest  only  on  the  basis  of  information contained in the offer document.
(6)  Any  corporate  or  product  advertisement  issued  by  the  issuer  during  the  subscription  period shall not make any reference to the issue of debt securities or be used for solicitation. Abridged Prospectus and application forms
9. (1) The issuer and lead merchant banker shall ensure that: (a)  every  application  form  issued  by  the  issuer  is  accompanied  by  a  copy  of  the  abridged prospectus; (b) the abridged prospectus shall not contain matters which are extraneous to the contents of the prospectus; (c)  adequate  space  shall  be  provided  in  the  application  form  to  enable  the  investors  to  fill  in various details like name, address, etc.
(2) The issuer may provide the facility for subscription of application in electronic mode. Electronic Issuances
10. An issuer proposing  to  issue debt  securities to  the public through the on-line system of the designated  stock  exchange  shall  comply  with  the  relevant  applicable  requirements  as  may  be specified by the Board. Price Discovery through Book Building
11. The issuer may determine the price of debt securities in consultation with the lead merchant banker and the issue may be at fixed price or the price may be determined through book building process in accordance with the procedure as may be specified by the Board. Minimum subscription.
12.  (1)  The  issuer  may  decide  the  amount  of  minimum  subscription  which  it  seeks  to  raise  by issue of debt securities and disclose the same in the offer document.
(2) In the event of non receipt of minimum subscription all application moneys received in the public issue shall be refunded forthwith to the applicants. 17[Allotment of securities and payment of interests.
12A.  (1)  The  Issuer  shall  ensure  that  in  case  of  listing  of  debt  securities  issued  to  public, allotment  of  securities  offered  to  public  shall  be  made  within  thirty  days  of  the  closure  of  the public issue.
(2) Where the debt securities are not allotted and/or application moneys are not refunded within the stipulated period in sub-regulation (1), the issuer shall undertake to pay interest at the rate of fifteen per cent per annum.
(3)  Credit  to  demat  accounts  of  the  allottees  shall  be  made  within  two  working  days  from  the date of allotment.] Underwriting
13. A public issue of debt securities may be underwritten by an underwriter registered with the Board and in such a case adequate disclosures regarding underwriting arrangements shall be disclosed in the offer document. Prohibitions of mis-statements in the offer document.
14. (1) The offer document  shall not  omit  disclosure of  any material  fact which may make the statements made therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, misleading.
(2)  The  offer  document  or  abridged  prospectus  or  any  advertisement  issued  by  an  issuer  in connection  with  a  public  issue  of  debt  securities  shall  not  contain  any  false  or  misleading statement. Trust Deed
15.  (1)  A  trust  deed  for  securing  the  issue  of  debt  securities  shall  be  executed  by  the  issuer  in favour of the debenture trustee within three months of the closure of the issue. 18[(1A)  Where  an  issuer  fails  to  execute  the  trust  deed  within  the  period  specified  in  the  sub- regulation (1), without prejudice to any liability arising on account of violation of the provisions of  the  Act  and  these  Regulations,  the  issuer  shall  also  pay  interest  of  at  least  two  percent  per annum to the debenture holder, over and above the agreed coupon rate, till the execution of the trust deed. (1B) A clause stipulating the requirement under sub-regulation (1A) shall form part of the Trust Deed and also be disclosed in the Offer Document.]
19[(2)  Every  debenture  trustee  shall  amongst  other  matters,  accept  the  trust  deeds  which  shall contain the matters as prescribed under section 71 of Companies Act, 2013 and Form No. SH.12 of the   Companies (Share   Capital   and Debentures) Rules, 2014. Such trust deed shall consist of two parts: a.  Part A containing statutory/standard information pertaining to the debt issue. b.  Part B containing details specific to the particular debt issue.]
(3) The trust deed shall not contain a clause which has the effect of – (i) limiting or extinguishing the obligations and liabilities of the debenture trustees or the issuer in  relation to any rights or interests of the investors; (ii) limiting or restricting or waiving the provisions of the Act , these regulations and circulars or guidelines issued by the Board; (iii). indemnifying the debenture trustees or the issuer for loss or damage caused by their act of negligence or commission or omission. Debenture Redemption Reserve
16.  (1)  For  the  redemption  of  the  debt  securities  issued  by  a  company,  the  issuer  shall  create debenture redemption reserve in accordance with the provisions of the  20[Companies Act, 2013] and circulars issued by Central Government in this regard.
(2) Where the issuer has defaulted in payment of interest on debt securities or redemption thereof or  in  creation  of  security  as  per  the  terms  of  the  issue  of  debt  securities,  any  distribution  of dividend shall require approval of the debenture trustees. Creation of security
17. (1) The proposal to create a charge or security , if any, in respect of secured debt securities shall be disclosed in the offer document along with its implications.
(2) The issuer shall give an undertaking in the offer document that the assets on which charge is created are free from any encumbrances and if the assets are already charged to secure a debt, the permissions or consent to create second or pari pasu charge on the assets of the issuer have been obtained from the earlier creditor.
(3)  The  issue  proceeds  shall  be  kept  in  an  escrow  account  until  the  documents  for  creation  of security as stated in the offer document, are executed. 21[Right to recall or redeem prior to maturity
17A.  An  issuer  making  public  issue  of  debt  securities  may  recall    such  securities  prior  to maturity date at his option (call) or provide such right of redemption prior to maturity date (put) to all the investors or only to retail investors, at their option, subject to the following: a)  Such  right  to  recall  or  redeem  debt  securities  prior  to  maturity  date  is  exercised  in accordance  with  the  terms  of  issue  and  detailed  disclosure  in  this  regard  is  made  in  the offer  document  including  date  from  which  such  right  is  exercisable,  period  of  exercise (which  shall  not  be  less  than  three  working  days),  redemption  amount  (including  the premium or discount at which such redemption shall take place); b)  The  issuer  or  investor  may  exercise  such  right  with  respect  to  all  the  debt  securities issued or held by them respectively or with respect to a part of the securities so issued or held ; c)  In case of partial exercise of such right in accordance with the terms of the issue by the issuer , it shall be done on proportionate basis only; d)  No such right shall be exercisable before expiry of twenty four months from the date of issue of such debt securities; e)  Issuer shall send notice to  all the eligible holders of such debt  securities at  least  twenty one days before the date from which such right is exercisable; f)  Issuer shall also provide a copy of such notice to the stock exchange where the such debt securities  are  listed  for  wider  dissemination  and  shall  make  an  advertisement  in  the national daily having wide circulation indicating the details of such right and eligibility of the holders who are entitled to avail such right ; g)  Issuer  shall  pay  the  redemption  proceeds  to  the  investors  along  with  the  interest  due  to the  investors  within  fifteen  days  from  the  last  day  within  which  such  right  can  be exercised; h)  Issuer shall pay interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum for the period of delay, if any, i)  After the completion of the exercise of such right, the issuer shall submit a detailed report to  the  stock  exchange  for  public  dissemination  regarding  the  debt  securities  redeemed during the exercise period and details of redemption thereof. securities having face value not more than rupees two lakh.] Redemption and Roll-over
18. (1) The issuer shall redeem the debt securities in terms of the offer document.
(2) Where the issuer desires to roll-over the debt securities issued by it, it shall do so only upon passing of a special resolution of holders of such securities and give 22[fifteen days] notice of the proposed roll over to them.
(3)  The  notice  referred  to  in  sub-  regulation  (2)  shall  contain  disclosures  with  regard  to  credit rating and rationale for roll-over.
(4)  The  issuer  shall,  prior  to  sending  the  notice  to  holders  of  debt  securities,  file  a  copy  of  the notice  and  proposed  resolution  with  the  stock  exchanges  where  such  securities  are  listed,  for dissemination of the same to public on its website. (5)The debt securities issued can be rolled over subject to the following conditions :- (a)  The  roll-over  is  approved  by  a  special  resolutionpassed  by  the  holders  of  debt  securities through postal ballot having the consent of not less than 75% of the holders by value of such debt securities; (b) atleast one rating is obtained from a credit rating agency within a period of six months prior to the due date of redemption and is disclosed in the notice referred to in sub-regulation (2); (c) fresh trust deed shall be executed at the time of such roll –over or the existing trust deed may be continued if the trust deed provides for such continuation ; (d) adequate security shall be created or maintained in respect of such debt securities to be rolled –over.
(6)  The  issuer  shall  redeem  the  debt  securities  of  all  the  debt  securities  holders,  who  have  not given their positive consent to the roll-over. CHAPTER III LISTING OF DEBT SECURITIES Mandatory listing.
19.  (1)An  issuer  desirous  of  making  an  offer  of  debt  securities  to  the  public  shall  make  an application for listing to one or more recognized stock exchanges in terms of  23[ sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) of section 40 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)].
(2) The issuer shall comply with conditions of listing of such debt securities as specified in the Listing Agreement with the stock exchange where such debt securities are sought to be listed.
24[(3)  Where  the  issuer  has  disclosed  the  intention  to  seek  listing  of  debt  securities  issued  on private placement basis, the issuer shall forward the listing application along with the disclosures specified  in  Schedule  I  to  the  recognized  stock  exchange  within  fifteen  days  from  the  date  of allotment of such debt securities.] 25[Listing Agreement.
19A. (1) Every issuer desirous of listing its debt securities on a recognised stock exchange shall execute an agreement with such stock exchange.
(2) Every issuer which has previously entered into agreements with a recognised stock exchange to list its debt securities shall execute a fresh listing agreement with such stock exchange within six  months  of  the  date  of  notification  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. Conditions for listing of debt securities issued on private placement basis
20. (1) An issuer may list  its debt  securities issued on private placement  basis on a recognized stock exchange subject to the following conditions: (a)  the  issuer  has  issued  such  debt  securities  in  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  the 27[Companies Act, 2013], rules prescribed thereunder and other applicable laws; (b)  credit  rating  has  been  obtained  in  respect  of  such  debt  securities  from  at  least  one  credit rating agency registered with the Board; (c) the debt securities proposed to be listed are in dematerialized form ; (d) the disclosures as provided in regulation 21 have been made. 28[(e) where the application is made to more than one recognized stock exchange, the issuer shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange.]
(2) The issuer shall comply with conditions of listing of such debt securities as specified in the Listing Agreement with the stock exchange where such debt securities are sought to be listed.
29[(3)  The  designated  stock  exchange  shall  collect  a  regulatory  fee  as  specified  in  Schedule  V from the issuer at the time of listing of debt securities issued on private placement basis.] 30[Consolidation and re-issuance
20A.  An  issuer  may  carry  out  consolidation  and  re-issuance  of  its  debt  securities,  31[in  the manner  as  may  be  specified  by  the  Board  from  time  to  time]  subject  to  the  fulfillment  of  the following conditions: a)  32[the  articles  of  association of  the  issuer   shall not  have  any provision,   whether express   or   implied,   contrary   to   such consolidation and re-issuance;] b)  the issue is through private placement; c)  the  issuer  has  obtained  fresh  credit  rating  for  each  re-issuance  from  at  least  one  credit rating agency registered with the Board and is disclosed; d)  such  ratings  shall  be  revalidated  on  a  periodic  basis  and  the  change,  if  any,    shall  be disclosed; e)  appropriate disclosures are made with regard to consolidation and re-issuance in the Term Sheet.] 33[International Securities Identification Number.
20B.  Any  issuer  issuing  debt  securities  on  private  placement  basis,  shall  comply    with    the conditions    relating  to  the issue  of International Securities  Identification Number, as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] Disclosures in respect of Private Placements of Debt Securities
21. (1) The issuer making a private placement of debt securities and seeking listing thereof on a recognized  stock  exchange  shall  make  disclosures  34[in  a  disclosure  document]  as  specified  in Schedule I of these regulations accompanied by the latest Annual Report of the issuer.
(2)  The  disclosures  as  provided  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  made  on  the  web  sites  of  stock exchanges where such securities are proposed to be listed and shall be available for download in PDF / HTML formats. 35[Filing of Shelf Disclosure Document.
21A. (1) An issuer making a private placement of debt securities and seeking listing thereof on a recognised  stock  exchange  may  file  a  Shelf  Disclosure  Document  containing  disclosures  as provided in Schedule I. 32 Substituted ibid for clause which read “there is such an enabling provision in its articles under which it has been incorporated;”. 34 Ibid. 35 Ibid.
(2) An issuer filing a Shelf Disclosure Document under sub-regulation (1), shall not be required to file disclosure document, while making subsequent private placement of debt securities for a period of 180 days from the date of filing of the shelf disclosure document: Provided that the issuer while making any private placement under Shelf Disclosure Document, shall file with  the concerned stock exchange updated disclosure document  with  respect  to  each tranche,  containing  details  of  the  private  placement  and  material  changes,  if  any,  in  the information provided in Shelf Disclosure Document.] 36[Creation of Security
21B.  The  issuer  shall  give  an  undertaking  in  the  Information  Memorandum  that  the  assets  on which  charge  is  created  are  free  from  any  encumbrances  and  in  cases  where  the  assets  are already  charged  to  secure  a  debt,  the  permission  or  consent  to  create  a  second  or  pari-passu charge on the assets of the issuer has been obtained from the earlier creditor.] Relaxation of strict enforcement of rule 19 of Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957
22.  In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  sub-rule  (7)  of  rule  19  of  the  Securities  Contracts (Regulation)  Rules,  1957,  the  Board  hereby  relaxes  the  strict  enforcement  of:  (a)  sub-rules  (1) and (3) of rule 19 the said rules in relation to listing of debt securities issued by way of a public issue or a private placement; (b) clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 19 of the said Rules in relation to listing of debt securities, (i) issued by way of a private placement by any issuer; (ii) issued to public by an infrastructure company, a Government company, a statutory authority or  corporation  or  any  special  purpose  vehicle  set  up  by  any  of  them,  which  is  engaged  in infrastructure sector. ‘infrastructure  sector’  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  them  under  the  SEBI (Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000 or any successor thereof. CHAPTER IV CONDITIONS FOR CONTINUOUS LISTING AND TRADING OF DEBT SECURITIES Continuous Listing Conditions
23. (1) All the issuers making public issues of debt securities or seeking listing of debt securities issued  on  private  placement  basis  shall  comply  with  the  conditions  of  listing  specified  in  the respective listing agreement for debt securities.
(2)  Every  rating  obtained  by  an  issuer  shall  be  periodically  reviewed  by  the  registered  credit rating agency and any revision in the rating shall be promptly disclosed by the issuer to the stock exchange(s) where the debt securities are listed.
(3) Any change in rating shall be promptly disseminated to investors and prospective investors in such manner as the stock exchange where such securities are listed may determine from time to time.
(4)  The  issuer,  the  respective  debenture  trustees  and  stock  exchanges  shall  disseminate  all information and reports on debt securities including compliance reports filed by the issuers and the  debenture  trustees  regarding  the  debt  securities  to  the  investors  and  the  general  public  by placing them on their websites.
(5)  Debenture  trustee  shall  disclose  the  information  to  the  investors  and  the  general  public  by issuing a press release in any of the following events: (a) default by issuer to pay interest on debt securities or redemption amount; (b) failure to create a charge on the assets; (c) revision of rating assigned to the debt securities.
(6) The information referred to in sub-regulation (5) shall also be placed on the websites, if any, of the debenture trustee, the issuer and the stock exchanges. Trading of Debt securities
24. (1) The debt securities issued to the public or on a private placement basis, which are listed in recognized  stock  exchanges,  shall  be  traded  and  such  trades  shall  be  cleared  and  settled  in recognized stock exchanges subject to conditions specified by the Board.
(2) In case of trades of debt securities which have been made over the counter, such trades shall be reported on a recognized stock exchange having a nation wide trading terminal or such other platform as may be specified by the Board.
(3) The Board may specify conditions for reporting of trades on the recognized stock exchange or other platform referred to in sub-regulation (2). CHAPTER V OBLIGATIONS OF INTERMEDIARIES AND ISSUERS Obligations of Debenture Trustee
25. (1) The debenture trustee shall be vested with the requisite powers for protecting the interest of holders of debt securities including a right to appoint a nominee director on the Board of the issuer in consultation with institutional holders of such securities.
(2)  The  debenture  trustee  shall  carry  out  its  duties  and  perform  its  functions  under  these regulations, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993, the trust deed and offer document, with due care, diligence and loyalty.
(3) The debenture trustee shall ensure disclosure of all material events on an ongoing basis.
(4)  The  debenture  trustees  shall  supervise  the  implementation  of  the  conditions  regarding creation of security for the debt securities and debenture redemption reserve. Obligations of the Issuer , Lead Merchant Banker, etc.
26. (1) The issuer shall disclose all the material facts in the offer documents issued or distributed to  the  public  and  shall  ensure  that  all  the  disclosures  made  in  the  offer  document  are  true,  fair and  adequate  and  there  is  no  mis-leading  or  untrue  statements  or  mis-statement  in  the  offer document.
(2)  The  Merchant  Banker  shall  verify  and  confirm  that  the  disclosures  made  in  the  offer documents  are  true,  fair  and  adequate  and  ensure  that  the  issuer  is  in  compliance  with  these regulations  as  well  as  all  transaction  specific  disclosures  required  in  Schedule  I  of  these regulations and 37[the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules made thereunder].
(3) The issuer shall treat the applicants in a public issue of debt securities in a fair and equitable manner as per the procedures as may be specified by the Board.
(4)  The  intermediaries  shall  be  responsible  for  the  due  diligence  in  respect  of  assignments undertaken by them in respect of issue, offer and distribution of securities to the public.
(5) No person shall employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud in connection with issue or subscription  or  distribution  of  debt  securities  which  are  listed  or  proposed  to  be  listed  on  a recognized stock exchange.
(6) The issuer and the merchant banker shall ensure that the security created to secure the debt securities is adequate to ensure 100% asset cover for the debt securities.
38[(7) The issuer shall create a recovery expense fund in the manner as maybe specified by the Board from time to time and inform the Debenture Trustee about the same.] CHAPTER VI PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS Inspection by the Board
27. (1) Without prejudice to the provisions of sections 11 and 11C of the Act and section 209A of the Companies Act, the Board may suo-motu or upon information received by it, appoint one or more persons to undertake the inspection of the books of account, records and documents of the  issuer  or  merchant  banker  or  any  other  intermediary  associated  with  the  public  issue, disclosure  or  listing  of  debt  securities,  as  governed  under  these  regulations,  for  any  of  the purposes specified in sub-regulation (2).
(2) The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) may be as follows, namely:- (a)  to  verify  whether  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,1956, Depositories Act,1996, the rules and regulations made thereunder in respect of issue of securities have been complied with; (b)  to  verify  whether  the  requirement  in  respect  of  issue  of  securities  as  specified  in  these regulations has been complied with; (c)  to  verify  whether  the  requirements  of  listing  conditions  and  continuous  disclosure requirement have been complied with; (d) to inquire into the complaints received from investors, other market participants or any other persons on any matter of issue and transfer of securities governed under these regulations; (e) to inquire into affairs of the issuer in the interest of investor protection or the integrity of the market governed under these regulations; (f) to inquire whether any direction issued by the Board has been complied with.
(3)  While  undertaking  an  inspection  under  these  regulations,  the  inspecting  authority  or  the Board, as the case may be, shall follow the procedure specified by the Board for inspection of the intermediaries. Directions by the Board
28. Without prejudice to the action under section 11, 11A, 11 B, 11D, sub- section (3) of section 12, Chapter VIA and section 24 of the Act or  39[ section 439 of the Companies Act, 2013], the Board may suo-motu or on receipt of information or on completion or pendency of inspection or investigation, in the interests of the securities market, issue or pass such directions as it deems fit including any or all of the following – (a) directing the issuer to refund of the application monies to the applicants in a public issue; (b) directing the persons concerned not to further deal in securities in any particular manner; (c) directing the persons concerned not to access the securities market for a particular period; (d) restraining the issuer or its promoters or directors from making further issues of securities; (e) directing the person concerned to sell or divest the securities; (f) directing the issuer or the depository not to give effect transfer or directing further freeze of transfer of securities; (g) any other direction which Board may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of the case: Provided that the Board shall, either before or after issuing such directions, give an opportunity of being heard to the persons against whom the directions are issued or proposed to be issued: Provided further that if any ex-parte direction is required to be issued, the Board may give post decisional hearing to affected person. Appeal
29.  Any  person  aggrieved  by  an  order  of  the  Board  or  Adjudicating  Officer  under  the  Act  or these regulations, may prefer an appeal to the Securities Appellate Tribunal in accordance with section 15T of the Act read with the Securities Appellate Tribunal (Procedure) Rules, 2000. 40[CHAPTER VI-A POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
29A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new  products, processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  in  live  environment  of  regulatory  sandbox  in  the securities markets.
(2)  Any  exemption  granted  by  the  Board  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  subject  to  the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board.] Delegation CHAPTER VII MISCELLANEOUS
30. The powers exercisable by the Board under these regulations shall also be exercisable by any officer of the Board to whom such powers are delegated by the Board. Power of the Board to issue general order or circular
31.  (1)  The  Board  may  by  a  general  or  special  order  or  circular  specify  any  conditions  or requirement in respect of issue of debt securities.
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power and provisions of these  regulations,  such  orders  or  circulars  may  provide  for  all  or  any  of  the  following  matters, namely: (a) Electronic issuances and other issue procedures including the procedure for price discovery ; (b) Conditions governing trading , reporting, clearing and settlement of trade in debt securities; (c) Listing conditions.
(3)  If  any  special  order  is  proposed  to  be  issued  to  any  particular  issuer  or  intermediary  on  a specific  issue,  no  such  order  shall  be  issued  unless  an  opportunity  to  represent  is  given  to  the person affected by such order. Power to remove difficulty
32. (1) In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, the  Board  may  issue  clarifications  or  grant  relaxations  from  application  requirement  or conditions of these regulations, after recording reasons therefore.
(2)  The  Board  may,  on  an  application  made  by  any  issuer,  relax  any  of  the  procedural requirements or conditions or strict enforcement of these regulations, if the Board is satisfied that: (a) requirement is procedural or technical in nature; or (b) requirement causes undue hardship to a particular class of industry or issuers from accessing the securities market; or (c) relaxation is in the interest of substantial number of investors; or (d) such relaxation will be in the interest of securities market. Repeal and Savings
33.  (1)  On  and  from  the  commencement  of  these  regulations,  the  provisions  of  Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000 in so far as they relate to issue and listing of debt securities shall stand rescinded.
3. (1) No  person  shall  act  as  an  InvIT  unless  it  has  obtained  a  certificate  of registration from the Board under these regulations.
(2) (3)
(4) An application for grant of certificate of registration as InvIT shall be made by the sponsor 55[on behalf of the trust] in Form A as specified in the Schedule I and shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as specified in Schedule II. The  Board  may,  in  order  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors,  appoint  any person  to  take  charge  of  records,  documents  of  the  56[trust]  and  for  this purpose, also determine the terms and conditions of such an appointment. The  Board  shall  take  into  account  requirements  as  specified  in  these regulations for the purpose of considering grant of registration. Eligibility criteria.
4. (1) For the purpose of the grant of certificate to 57[a trust], the Board shall consider all matters relevant to the activities as an InvIT.
(2)  Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions, the Board shall consider the following, mandatory requirements namely,– (a) (b) the  applicant  is  58[the  sponsor  on  behalf  of  the]  trust  and  the instrument of trust is in the form of a deed duly registered in India under the provisions of the Registration Act, 1908; the trust deed has its main objective as undertaking activity of InvIT in accordance with these regulations and includes responsibilities of the trustee in accordance with regulation 9; 15 (c) persons have been designated as sponsor(s), investment manager and  trustee  under  these  regulations  and  all  such  persons  are separate entities; (d) with regard to sponsor(s) ,– (i) 59[each sponsor shall be clearly identified in the application of  registration  to  the  Board  and  in  the  offer  document/ placement memorandum, as applicable]; (ii) each sponsor has,–
(1) (2) a net worth of not less than Rs. 100 crore if it is a body corporate or a company; or net tangible assets of value not less than Rs 100 crore in case it is a limited liability partnership:60[***] (iii)  Whether the sponsor or its associate has a sound track record in  development  of  infrastructure  or  fund  management  in  the infrastructure sector. means  experience  of  at  least  5  years  and  where  the  sponsor  is  a developer, at least two projects of the sponsor have been completed; (e) with regard to the investment manager,- (i) (ii) the  investment  manager  has  a  net  worth  of  not  less  than rupees  ten  crore  if  the  investment  manager  is  a  body corporate  or  a  company  or  net  tangible  assets  of  value  not less than ten crore rupees in case the investment manager is a limited liability partnership; 61[the  investment  manager  has  not  less  than  five  years of  experience        in        fund        management        or        advisory services    or development in the infrastructure sector or the combined experience of  the  directors/partners/employees  of the  investment  manager  in fund  management  or  advisory (iii) (iv) (v) (vi) (vii) services  or  development  in  the infrastructure sector is not less than 30 years: Provided  that  for  computing  the  combined  experience, only the  experience    of  the    directors/partners/employees    with more  than  5 years  of experience  in  fund  management  or advisory  services  or development in the infrastructure sector shall be considered.] the  investment  manager  has  not  less  than  two  employees who  have  at  least  five  years  experience  each,  in  fund management  or    advisory  services  or  development  in  the infrastructure sector; the investment manager has not less than one employee who has at least five years experience in the relevant sub-sector(s) in which the InvIT has invested or proposes to invest; the investment manager has not less than half of its directors in case of a company or members of the governing board in case of an LLP as independent and not directors or  members of  the  governing  board  62[of  an  Investment  Manager]  of another InvIT; the investment manager has an office in India from where the operations  pertaining  to  the  InvIT  is  proposed  to  be conducted; the  investment  manager  has  entered  into  an  investment management agreement  with  the  trustee  which  provides for the responsibilities of the investment manager in accordance with regulation 10; (f) 63[ the project manager has been identified and shall be appointed in terms of the project implementation/ management agreement: Provided that the project implementation agreement/ management agreement shall be submitted along with the draft offer document/ or the placement memorandum; (g) with regard to the trustee,– (i) (ii) the trustee is registered with the Board under Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993  and the  sponsor(s)  or 64[investment] manager; and is  not  an  associate  of trustee  has  such  wherewithal  with to the infrastructure, personnel, etc. to the satisfaction of the Board and  in  accordance  with  circulars  or  guidelines  as  may  be specified by the Board; respect (h) (i) (j) (k) no unit holder of the InvIT enjoys 65[superior] voting or any other rights over another unit holder 66[and there shall not be multiple classes of units of InvITs: Notwithstanding the above, subordinate units may be issued only to the sponsors and its associates, where such subordinate units shall carry only inferior voting or any other rights compared to other units;] 67[***] the applicant has clearly described at the time of registration, details pertaining to proposed activities of the InvIT; the 68[InvIT and parties to the InvIT] are fit and proper persons based on  the  criteria  as  specified  in  Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; (l) (m) whether any previous application for grant of certificate made by the 69[InvIT  or  the  parties  to  the  InvIT  or  their  directors/members  of governing board] has been rejected by the Board; whether any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board or any other  regulatory  authority  against  the  70[InvIT  or  the  parties  to  the InvIT or their directors/members of governing board] under any Act or the regulations or circulars or  guidelines made thereunder. Furnishing of further information, clarification
5. (1) The  Board  may  require  the  applicant  to  furnish  any  such  information  or clarification  as  may  be  required  by  it  for  the  purpose  of  processing  of  the application.
(2)  The  Board,  if  it  so  desires,  may  require  the  applicant  or  its  authorized representative(s)  to  appear  before  the  Board  for  personal  representation  in connection with the grant of certificate. Procedure for grant of certificate
6. (1) The  Board  on  being  satisfied  that  the  applicant  fulfils,  the  requirements specified in regulation 4 shall send intimation to the applicant and on receipt of the payment of registration fees as specified in Schedule II, grant certificate of registration in Form B under Schedule I: Provided that the Board may grant in-principle approval to the 71[trust], where it deems fit and on satisfaction of all requirements as specified in regulation 4, grant final registration to the 72[trust].
(2) The  registration  may  be  granted  with  such  conditions  as  may  be  deemed appropriate by the Board. Conditions of certificate
7. The  certificate  granted  under  regulation  6  shall,  inter-alia,  be  subject  to  the following conditions,- the InvIT shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations; the InvIT shall forthwith inform the Board in writing, if any information or particulars previously submitted to the Board are found to be false or misleading in any material particular or if there is any material change in the information already submitted; The  InvIT  and  parties  to  the  InvIT  shall  satisfy  with  the  conditions specified in regulation 4 at all times; The  InvIT and  parties to  the InvIT  shall  comply,  at  all  times,  with  the Code of conduct as specified in the Schedule VI, wherever applicable. (a) (b) (c) (d) 73[De-classification of the status of sponsor 7A
(1) (a) (b) (c) De-classification of the status of a sponsor(s) of an InvIT whose units have been listed on the stock exchanges for a period of three years shall  be  permitted upon  receipt of  an  application from  the  InvIT  and subject to compliance with the following conditions: The unit holding of such sponsor and its associates taken together does not exceed 10% of the outstanding units of the InvIT; The investment manager of the InvIT is not an entity controlled by such sponsor or its associates; Approval  of  unit  holders  has  been  obtained  in  accordance  with  sub- regulation 4 of Regulation 22.] Procedure where registration is refused
8. (1)
(2) After considering an application made under regulation 3, if the Board is of the opinion that a certificate should not be granted to the  74[trust], it may  reject  the  application  after  giving  the  applicant  a  reasonable opportunity of being heard. The  decision  of communicated to the applicant within thirty days of such decision. the  application  shall  be the  Board to  reject RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF PARTIES TO THE InvIT, VALUER AND CHAPTER III AUDITOR Rights and responsibilities of trustee
9. (1) The trustee shall hold the InvIT assets in the name of the InvIT for the benefit of the unit holders in accordance with the trust deed and these regulations.
(2) (3)
(4) (5)
(6) The trustee shall enter into an investment management agreement with the investment manager on behalf of the InvIT. The  trustee  shall  oversee  activities  of  the  investment  manager  in  the interest  of  the  unit  holders,  ensure  that  the  investment  manager complies with regulation 10 and shall obtain compliance certificate from the investment manager, in the form as may be specified, on a quarterly basis. The  trustee  shall  oversee  activities  of  the  project  manager  75[***]with respect  to  compliance  with  these  regulations  and  the  76[project implementation agreement/] project management agreement and shall obtain compliance certificate from the Project manager, in the form as may be specified, on a quarterly basis. The  trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  investment  manager  complies  with reporting  and  disclosures  requirements  in  accordance  with  these regulations  and  in  case  of  any  delay  or  discrepancy,  require  the investment manager to rectify the same on an urgent basis. The  trustee  shall  review  the  transactions  carried  out  between  the investment  manager  and  its  associates  and  where  the  investment manager has advised that there may be a conflict of interest, shall obtain confirmation  from  a  practising  chartered  accountant  77[or  valuer,  as applicable,] that such transaction is on arm's length basis.
(7) (8)
(9) (10)
(11) (12)
(13) (14)
(15) The  trustee  shall  periodically  review  the  status  of  unit  holders' complaints and their redressal undertaken by the investment manager. The  trustee  shall  make  distributions  and  ensure  that  investment manager makes timely declaration of distributions to the unit holders in accordance with sub-regulations (6),(7) and (8) of regulation 18. The trustee may require the investment manager to set up such systems and  procedures  and  submit  such  reports  to  the  trustees,  as  may  be necessary for effective monitoring of the functioning of the InvIT. The trustee shall ensure that subscription amount is kept in a separate bank  account  in  name  of  the  InvIT  and  is  only  utilized  for  adjustment against  allotment  of  units  or  refund  of  money  to  the  applicants  till  the time such units are listed. The trustee  shall ensure  that  the  remuneration of  the  valuer  is  not  be linked to or based on the value of the assets being valued. The  trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  investment  manager  convenes meetings of the unit holders in accordance with these regulations and oversee the voting by unit holders. The  trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  investment  manager  convenes meetings of unit holders not less than once every year and the period between such meetings shall not exceed fifteen months. The  trustee  may  take  up  with  the  Board  or  with  the  designated  stock exchange, as may be applicable, any matter which has been approved in any meeting of unit holders, if the matter requires such action. In  case  of  any  change  in  investment  manager  due  to  removal  or otherwise,– a.  prior  to  such  change,  the  trustee  shall  obtain  approval  from  unit holders in accordance with regulation 22 and from the Board; b.  the  trustee  shall appoint  the  new  investment  manager  within  three months  from  the  date  of  termination  of  the  earlier  investment management agreement; c.  the previous investment manager shall continue to act as such at the discretion  of  trustee  till  such  time  as  new  investment  manager  is appointed; d.  the trustee shall ensure that the new investment manager shall stand substituted  as  a  party  in  all  the  documents  to  which  the  earlier investment manager was a party; 22 e.  the  trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  earlier  investment  manager continues to be liable for all its acts of omissions and commissions notwithstanding such termination.
(16) In  case  of  any  change  in  the  project  manager  due  to  removal  or otherwise,– a.  the  trustee  shall  appoint  the  new  project  manager  within  three months  from  the  date  of  termination  of  the  earlier  78[project implementation agreement/] project management agreement; b.  the  trustee  may,  either  suo  motu  or  based  on  the  advice  of  the concessioning authority appoint an administrator in connection with a infrastructure project(s) for such term and on such conditions as it deems fit; c.  the  previous  project  manager  shall  continue  to  act  as  such  at  the discretion  of  trustee  till  such  time  as  new  project  manager  is appointed; d.  all costs and expenses in this regard will be borne by the new project manager; e.  the  trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  new  project  manager  shall  stand substituted as a party in all the documents to which the earlier project manager was a party; f. the trustee shall ensure that the earlier project manager continues to be liable for all its acts of omissions and commissions for the period during which it served as the project manager, notwithstanding such termination. The  trustee  shall  obtain  prior  approval  from  the  unit  holders  in accordance with regulation 22 and from the Board in case of change in control of the  investment manager. In case of change in control of the project manager in a PPP project, the trustee shall ensure that written consent of the concessioning authority is obtained in terms of the concession agreement prior to such change, where applicable.
(17) (18)
(19) (20)
(21) The trustee79 [of the InvIT] shall not invest in units of the InvIT in which it is designated as the trustee. The trustee shall ensure that the activity of the InvIT is being operated in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  trust  deed,  these  regulations and  the  offer  document  or  placement  memorandum  and  if  any discrepancy is noticed, shall inform the same to the Board immediately in writing. The  trustee  shall  provide  to  the  Board  and  to  the  designated  stock exchanges, where applicable, such information as may be sought by the Board or by the designated stock exchanges pertaining to the activity of the InvIT.
(22) The trustee shall immediately inform the Board in case any act which is detrimental to the interest of the unit holders is noted. Rights and responsibilities of investment manager
10. (1) The  investment  manager  shall  make  the  investment  decisions  with respect to the underlying assets or  projects of the InvIT including any further investment or divestment of the assets.
(2) (3) The investment manager shall oversee activities of the project manager with respect to 80[compliance with these regulations] and the 81[project implementation agreement/] project management agreement and shall obtain compliance certificate from the project manager, in the form as may be specified, on a quarterly basis. The investment manager shall ensure that the infrastructure assets of the InvIT or 82[holdco or] SPV have proper legal titles, if  applicable, and that all the material contracts entered into on behalf of InvIT or SPV are
(4) (5) legal,  valid,  binding  and  enforceable  by  and  on  behalf  of  the  InvIT  or SPV. The investment manager shall ensure that the investments made by the InvIT  are  in  accordance  with  the  investment  conditions  specified  in regulation  18  and  in  accordance  with  the  investment  strategy  of  the InvIT. The investment manager, in consultation with trustee, shall appoint the valuer(s),  auditor,  registrar  and  transfer  agent,  merchant  banker, custodian  and  any  other  intermediary  or  service  provider  or  agent  as may be applicable with respect to activities pertaining to the InvIT in a timely manner and in accordance with these regulations.
(6) The  investment  manager  shall  appoint  an  auditor  for  a  period  of  not more than five consecutive years: Provided that the auditor, not being an individual, may be reappointed for a period of another five consecutive years, subject to approval of unit- holders in the annual meeting in accordance with regulation 22.
(7) The investment manager shall arrange for adequate insurance coverage for the 83[InvIT assets]: Provided that this shall not apply in case the 84[InvIT] assets are required to  be  insured  by  any  other  person  under  any  agreement  including  a concession agreement or under any Act or  regulations or circulars or guidelines of any concessioning authority or government or local body: Provided  further  that  in  85[case  any  of  the  InvIT  assets  are  held]  by 86[holdco or]SPV, the investment manager shall ensure that assets held by the 87[holdco or] SPV are adequately insured.
(8) The investment manager shall ensure that it has adequate infrastructure and sufficient key personnel with adequate experience and qualification to undertake management of the InvIT at all times.
(9) The  investment  manager  88[and  the  merchant  banker(s)]  shall  be responsible for all activities pertaining to issue of units and listing of units of the InvIT including,– a.  filing of placement memorandum with the Board; b.  filing the 89[of the] offer document with the Board and the exchanges within the prescribed time period; c.  dealing with all matters up to allotment of units to the unit holders; d.  obtaining  in-principle  approval  90[and  final  listing  and  trading approvals] from the designated stock exchanges; e.  dealing with all matters relating to issue and listing of the units of the InvIT as specified under Chapter IV and any guidelines as may be issued by the Board in this regard. The investment manager 91[and the merchant bankers(s)], shall ensure that disclosures made in the offer document or placement memorandum contains  material,  true,  correct  and  adequate  disclosures  and  are  in accordance  with  these  regulations  and  guidelines  or  circulars  issued hereunder. The investment manager shall declare distributions to the unit holders in accordance with sub-regulation (6) and (7) of regulation 18. The  investment  manager  shall  review  the  transactions  carried  out between the project manager and its associates and where the project manager has advised that there may be a conflict of interest, shall obtain confirmation from the  92[practicing chartered accountant or the valuer, as applicable,] that such transaction is on arm's length basis.
(10) (11)
(12) (13)
(14) (15)
(16) The investment manager shall ensure adequate and timely redressal of all unit holders' grievances pertaining to activities of the InvIT. The  investment manager shall ensure that the disclosures or reporting to  the  unit  holders,  Board,  trustees  and  designated  stock  exchanges, are  in  accordance  with  these  regulations  and  guidelines  or  circulars issued hereunder. The  investment  manager  shall  provide  to  the  Board  and  to  the designated stock exchanges, where applicable, any such information as may  be  sought  by  the  Board  or  the  designated  stock  exchanges pertaining to the activities of the InvIT. The  investment  manager  or  its  associates  shall  not  obtain  any commission  or  rebate  or  any  other  remuneration,  by  whatever  name called, arising out of transactions pertaining to the InvIT other than as specified in the offer document or placement memorandum or any other document as may be specified by the Board for the purpose of issue of units.
(17) The  investment  manager  shall  ensure  that  the  valuation  of  the  InvIT assets is done by the valuer(s) in accordance with regulation 21.
(18) The investment manager shall submit to the trustee,- a.  quarterly reports on the activities of the InvIT including receipts for all  funds  received  by  it  and  for  all  payments  made,  position  on compliance  with  these  regulations,  specifically  compliance  with regulations  18,  19  and  20,  performance  report,  status  of development  of  under-construction  projects,  within  thirty  days  of end of such quarter; b.  valuation reports as required under these regulations within fifteen days of the receipt of the valuation report from the valuer; c.  decision to acquire or sell or develop or bid for any asset or project or expand existing completed assets or projects along with rationale for the same; d.  details of any action which requires approval from the unit holders as maybe required under the regulations; e.  details of any other material fact including change in its directors, change in its shareholding, any legal proceedings that may have a significant bearing on the activity of the InvIT, within seven working days of such action. 27
(19) (20)
(21) (22)
(23) (24) In  case  the  investment  manager  fails  to  timely  submit  to  the  trustee information or reports as specified under sub-regulation (18) above or sub-regulation (9) of regulation 9, the trustee shall intimate the same to the Board and the Board may take action, as it deems fit. The  investment  manager  shall  coordinate  with  trustee,  as  may  be necessary, with respect to operations of the InvIT. The investment manager shall ensure that computation and declaration of NAV of the InvIT based on the valuation done by the valuer 93[, shall be disclosed to the stock exchange(s),] not later than fifteen days from the date of valuation. The investment manager shall ensure that the audit of accounts of the InvIT by the auditor is done not less  94[once in a year] and such report is submitted to the 95[***] stock exchange96[s] within 97[sixty] days of end of financial year ending March 31st 98[***]. The  investment manager  may  appoint  a  custodian  in order to provide such custodial services as may be authorised by the trustees. The investment manager shall place before its board of directors in case of company or the governing board in case of an LLP a report on activity and  performance  of  the  InvIT  at  least  once  every  quarter  within  thirty days of end of every quarter.
(25) (26)
(27) The investment manager shall designate an employee or director as the compliance officer for monitoring of compliance with these regulations and guidelines or circulars issued hereunder and intimating the Board in case of any non-compliance. The investment manager shall convene meetings of the unit holders in accordance  with  regulation  22  and  maintain  records  pertaining  to  the meetings in accordance with regulation 26. The  investment  manager  shall  ensure  that  all  activities  of  the intermediaries  or  agents  or  service  providers  appointed  by  the investment  manager  are  in  accordance  with  these  regulations  and guidelines or circulars issued hereunder. Responsibilities of project manager
11. (1) The project manager shall undertake operations and management of the InvIT  assets  including  making  arrangements  for  the  appropriate maintenance,  as  may  be  applicable,  either  directly  or  through  the appointment  and  supervision  of  appropriate  agents  and  as  required under any project agreement including a concession agreement in the case of a PPP project.
(2) (3) If the InvIT invests in under construction projects, the project manager shall,– (a) undertake the operations and management of the projects, either directly or through appropriate agents; oversee the progress of development, approval status and other aspects of the project upto its completion, in case of appointment of agents for the purpose of execution. (b) The  project  manager  shall  discharge  all  obligations  in  respect  of achieving timely completion of the 99[project implementation agreement/] infrastructure  project,  wherever  applicable,  implementation,  operation, maintenance and management of such infrastructure project in terms of the project management agreement. Rights and responsibilities of sponsor(s)
12. (1) The  sponsor(s)  shall  set  up  the  InvIT  and  appoint  the  trustees  of  the InvIT.
(2) (3) The  sponsor(s)  shall  transfer  or  undertake  to  transfer  to  the  InvIT,  its entire shareholding or interest  100[and rights] in the  101[holdco and/ or] SPV  or  ownership  of  the  infrastructure  projects,  subject  to  a  binding agreement  and  adequate  disclosures  in  the  offer  document  or placement memorandum, prior to allotment of units of the InvIT: Provided that this shall not apply to the extent of any mandatory holding of shares or interest 102[and rights] in the 103[holdco and/ or] SPV by the sponsor(s)  as  per  any  Act  or  regulations  or  circulars  or  guidelines  of government or any regulatory authority or concession agreement. With respect to holding of units in the InvIT, the sponsor(s) together shall hold not less than 104[fifteen] per cent. of the total units of the InvIT after initial offer of units, on a post-issue basis for a period of not less than 3 years  from  the  date  of  the  listing  of  such  units105[,  subject  to  the following]: 106[“(i)  sponsor(s)  would  be  responsible  for  all  acts,  omissions  and representations/covenants  of  the  InvIT  related  to  formation  of InvIT, sale/ transfer of assets/holdco/SPV to the InvIT. (ii)   the InvIT/the trustee of the InvIT shall also have recourse against the Sponsor for any breach in this regard. (iii)        project Manager of the InvIT shall be the sponsor or an associate of the sponsor and shall continue to act in such capacity for a period of minimum three years from the date of listing of InvIT units unless suitable replacement is appointed by the unit-holders through the Trustee: Provided that the condition as specified at sub clause (iii) above shall not  be  applicable  where  the  sponsor(s)  together  hold  not  less  than twenty five per cent. of the total units of the InvIT after initial offer of units, on a post-issue basis for a period of not less than 3 years from the date of the listing of such units.] (ii) (iii) Provided 107[further] that in case of PPP projects 108[where the InvIT is investing  in  infrastructure  assets  through  SPV(s)],  in  case  such acquiring  or  holding  is  disallowed  by  government  or  under  any provisions of the concession agreement or any other such agreement,– the sponsor may continue to maintain such holding at the SPV (i) level; the consolidated value of all such holdings at the SPV level and the value of the units of InvIT held by the sponsor shall not be less than the value of 109[fifteen] per cent. of the total units of the InvIT after initial issue of units on a post-issue basis; such units of the InvIT and shares or interest in the SPV shall be held for a period of not less than three years from the date of the listing of units of the InvIT; in case such holding of sponsor in the SPV results in the InvIT not  having  controlling  interest  and  not  having  more  than  fifty 110[one]  per  cent.  shareholding  or  interest  in  the  SPV,  the sponsor  shall  enter  into  a  binding  agreement  with  the  InvIT  to ensure that decisions taken by the sponsor including voting with respect to the SPV are in compliance with these regulations and not against the interest of the InvITs or the unit holders and shall be  subject  to  further  guidelines  as  may  be  specified  by  the Board. (iv) Any holding by  sponsor in InvIT, exceeding  111[fifteen]  per cent. on a post issue basis, shall be held for a period of not less than one year from the date of listing of such units.
(4) Rights and responsibilities of the valuer and auditor
13. (1) The valuers shall comply with the following conditions at all times,– (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) (f) (g) (h) (i) (j) (k) the  valuer  shall  ensure  that  the  valuation of  the InvIT assets  is impartial, true and fair and is in accordance with regulation 21; the valuer shall ensure adequate and robust internal controls to ensure the integrity of its valuation reports; the  valuer  shall  ensure  that  it  has  sufficient key  personnel  with adequate experience and qualification to perform valuations; the valuer shall ensure that it has sufficient financial resources to enable it to conduct its business effectively and meet its liabilities; the  valuer  and  any  of  its  employees  involved  in  valuing  of  the assets of the InvIT, shall not,– i. invest  in  units  of  the  InvIT  or  in  the  assets  being  valued; and sell  the  assets  or  units  of  InvITs  held  prior  to  being appointed as the valuer, ii. till the time such person is designated as valuer of such InvIT and not less than six months after ceasing to be valuer of the InvIT; the  valuer  shall  conduct  valuation  of  the  InvIT  assets  with transparency  and  fairness  and  shall  render,  at  all  times,  high standards of service, exercise due diligence, ensure proper care and exercise independent professional judgment; the valuer shall act with independence, objectivity and impartiality in performing the valuation; the  valuer  shall  discharge  its  duties  towards  the  InvIT  in  an efficient and competent manner, utilizing its knowledge, skills and experience in best possible way to complete given assignment; the  valuer  shall  not  accept  remuneration,  in  any  form,  for performing a valuation of the InvIT assets from any person other than the InvIT or its authorized representative; the  valuer  shall  before  accepting  any  assignment,112[  from  any related  party  of  the  InvIT,]  disclose  to  the  InvIT  any  direct  or indirect  consideration  which  the  valuer  may  have  in  respect  of such assignment; the  valuer  shall  disclose  to  the  InvIT  any  pending  business transactions, other arrangements  with  the  investment  manager  or  any  other  party negotiation and contracts under whom the InvIT is contracting with and any other factors that may interfere  with  the  valuer’s  ability  to  give  an  independent  and professional valuation of the assets; the valuer shall not make false, misleading or exaggerated claims in order to secure assignments; the  valuer  shall  not  provide  misleading  valuation,  either  by providing information  or  by  withholding  relevant information; the valuer shall not accept an assignment which interferes with its ability to do fair valuation; the  valuer  shall,  prior  to  performing  a  valuation,  acquaint  itself with all laws or regulations relevant to such valuation. incorrect (l) (m) (n) (o)
(2) The auditor shall comply with the following conditions at all times,– the auditor shall conduct audit of the accounts of the InvIT and draft the audit report based on the accounts examined by him and after  taking  into  account  the  relevant  accounting  and  auditing standards, as  may be specified by the Board; the  auditor  shall,  to  the  best  of his  information  and  knowledge, ensure that the accounts and financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the affairs of the InvIT, including profit or loss and cash flow for the period and such other matters as may be specified; the auditor shall have a right of access at all times to the books of accounts and vouchers pertaining to activities of the InvIT; the  auditor  shall  have  a  right  to  require  such  information  and explanation  pertaining  to  activities  of  the  InvIT  as  he  may consider necessary for the performance of his duties as auditor from the employees of InvIT or 113[holdco or] parties to the InvIT or 114[holdco or] SPV or any other person in possession of such information. (a) (b) (c) (d) CHAPTER IV OFFER OF UNITS OF InvIT AND LISTING OF UNITS Issue of units and allotment
14. (1) No initial offer of units by an InvIT shall be made unless,– (a) (b) The InvIT is registered with the Board under these regulations; the  value  of  115[InvIT  assets]  is  not  less  than  116[rupees]  five hundred crore. portion  of  the  holding  of  InvIT  in  the  underlying  assets  or 117[holdco or] SPVs; (c) the offer size is not less than rupees two hundred fifty crore: Provided that the requirement of ownership of assets under clause (b) and offer size under clause (c) may be complied 118[ at any point of time before allotment of units in accordance with offer document/placement memorandum]  subject,  to  a  binding  agreement  with  the  relevant party(ies)  that  119[such]  the  requirements  shall  be  fulfilled  prior  to 120[such]  allotment  121[and]  a  declaration  to  the  Board  and  122[to]  the designated  stock  exchanges  to  that  effect,  where  applicable  and adequate  disclosures  in  this  regard  in  the  123[***]  offer  document  or placement memorandum. 124[(1A) The minimum offer and allotment to public through an offer document/ placement memorandum shall be,- (a) atleast twenty five per cent. of the total outstanding units of the InvIT, if the post issue capital of the InvIT calculated at offer price is less than rupees one thousand six hundred crore: Provided that this requirement shall be complied along with the requirement under Regulation 14(1)(c) of the InvIT Regulations. (b) of the value of atleast Rs 400 crore, if the post issue capital of the InvIT calculated at offer price is equal to or more than rupees one thousand six hundred crore and less than rupees four thousand crore; (c) atleast ten per cent. of the total outstanding units of the InvIT, if the post issue capital of the InvIT calculated at offer price is equal to or more than rupees four thousand crore: Provided that any units offered to sponsor or the investment manager or the project  manager  or  their  related  parties  or  their  associates  shall  not  be counted towards units offered to the public. Provided further that any listed InvIT which has public holding below twenty five per cent on account of sub-clauses (b) and (c) above, such InvIT shall increase its public holding to at least twenty five per cent, within a period of three years from the date of listing pursuant to initial offer.]
(2) If the InvIT 125[ raises funds by way of private placement]– 126[it shall do it] through a placement memorandum; (a) (b) from 127[institutional investors] and body corporate only, whether Indian or foreign: Provided that in case of foreign investors, such investment shall be subject to guidelines as may be specified by Reserve Bank of India  and the government from time to time; (c) with minimum investment from any investor of rupees one crore; 128[Notwithstanding the  above,  if  such an  privately  placed  InvIT invests or proposes to invest not less than eighty per cent of the value  of  the  InvIT  assets  129[,  in  completed  and  revenue generating  assets,]  the  minimum  investment  from  an  investor shall be rupees twenty five crore;] (d) from not less than five and not more than one thousand investors. 130[(da)  maximum subscription from any investor other than sponsor(s), its related parties and its associates, in initial offer shall not be more than 25 percent of the total unit capital;] 131[(e) shall file a placement memorandum with the Board alongwith the fee  as  specified  in  Schedule  II,  atleast  5  days  prior  to  opening  of  the issue: Provided that such opening of the issue shall not be at a date later than 3  months  from  the  receipt  of  in-principle  approval  for  listing,  from exchange(s).] 132[(f) it shall file the final placement memorandum with the Board within a period of ten working days from the date of listing of the units issued therein.]
(3) (4) 133[***] 134[ If the InvIT raises funds by public issue] 135[***] 136[***]– (a) 137[ it shall be by way of initial public offer]; (b) any subsequent issue of units after initial 138[public] offer may be by  way  of  follow-on  offer,  preferential  allotment,  qualified institutional placement, rights issue, bonus issue, offer for sale or any other mechanism and in the manner as may be specified by the Board; (c)  minimum  subscription  from  any  investor  in  initial  and  follow-on offer shall be 139[one] lakh rupees ; 140[(ca) maximum subscription from any investor other than sponsor(s), its  related  parties  and  its  associates,  in  initial  offer  shall  not be more than 25 percent of the total unit capital;] (d) (e) 141[***] prior to initial 142[public] offer and follow-on offer, the 143[merchant banker] shall file the draft offer document  144[ along with the fee as  specified the  designated  stock exchange(s) and the Board not less than 145[thirty] working days before filing the 146[***] offer document with the designated stock exchange 147[and SEBI]; in  Schedule II,]  with (f) (g) (h) (i) the draft offer document filed with the Board shall be made public, for comments, if any, 148[***] by hosting it on the websites of the Board,  designated  stock  exchanges  149[,  InvIT]  and  merchant bankers  associated  with  the  issue  150[,  for  a  period  of  not  less than twenty one days]; the Board may communicate its comments to the lead merchant banker  and,  in  the  interest  of  investors,  may  require  the  lead merchant banker to carry out such modifications in the draft offer document as it deems fit; the  lead  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  all  comments received from the Board on the draft offer document are suitably addressed prior to the filing of the 151[***] offer document with the designated stock exchanges; in  case  no  152[observations]  are  153[issued]  by  the  Board  in  the draft offer document within twenty one working days from the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the lead merchant bankers or manager,  the  InvIT  may  154[file]  the  155[***]  offer  document  or follow-on offer document 156[with the Board and the exchange(s)]; (j) (k) (l) the draft 157[offer document] and 158[***] offer document shall be accompanied by a due diligence certificate signed by the 159[***] lead merchant banker; the 160[***] offer document shall be filed with the designated stock exchanges and the Board not less than five working days before opening of the offer 161[***]; The  InvIT  may  162[open]  the  initial  163[public]  offer  or  follow-on offer 164[or rights issue] within a period of not more than  165[one year]  from  the  date  of  166[***]  issuance  of  observations  by  the Board 167[***]: Provided that if the initial 168[public] offer or follow-on offer 169[or rights issue] is not made within the prescribed time period, a fresh 170[draft] offer document shall be filed; 171[Provided  further  that  the  InvIT  shall  not  be  required  to file draft offer  document  with  the Board  in  case  of  a  fast track rights    issue,  subject  to  the  fulfillment  of  the  conditions  as specified by the Board from time to time.] (m) The  InvIT  may  invite  for  subscriptions  and  allot  units  to  any person, whether resident or foreign: (n) (o) (p) (q) (r) (s) Provided that in case of foreign investors, such investment shall be subject to guidelines as may be specified by Reserve Bank of India and the government from time to time. the  application  for  subscription  shall  be  accompanied  by  a statement containing the abridged version of the offer document detailing the risk factors and summary of the terms of issue; initial  172[public]  offer  and  follow-on  offer  shall  not  be  open  for subscription for a period of more than thirty days; in  case  of  over-subscriptions,  the  InvIT  shall  allot  units  to  the applicants  on  a  proportionate  basis  rounded  off  to  the  nearest integer  subject to minimum  subscription amount per  subscriber as specified in clause (c); the InvIT shall allot units  or refund application money,as the case may be, within twelve working days from the date of closing of the issue; the InvIT shall issue units in only in dematerialized form to all the applicants; the  price  of  InvIT  units  issued  by  way  of  public  issue  shall  be determined  through  the  book  building  process  or  any  other process  in  accordance  with  the  guidelines  issued  by  the  Board and in the manner as may be specified by the Board; (t) the InvIT shall refund money,- (i) (ii) to all the applicants in case it fails to collect subscription of atleast  173[ninety] per cent. of the  174[fresh] issue size as specified in the 175[***] offer document; to applicants to the extent of the over subscription, in case the  moneys  received  is  in  excess  of  the  extent  of  over- subscription  as  specified  in  the  176[***]  offer  document, money shall be refunded to applicants to the extent of the oversubscription: Provided that right to retain such over subscription cannot exceed twenty five per cent. of the issue size; 177[Provided further, that the offer document shall contain adequate  disclosures  towards  the  utilisation  of  such oversubscription  proceeds,  if  any,  and  such  proceeds retained  on  account  of  oversubscription  shall  not  be utilised towards general purposes.] (iii) to all the applicants, in case the number of subscribers to the initial 178[public] offer forming part of the public is less than twenty; (u) If the investment manager fails to allot or list the units or refund the money within the specified time, then the investment manager shall pay interest to the unit holders at the rate of fifteen per cent. per  annum,  till  such  allotment  or    listing  or  refund  and  such interest shall be not be recovered in the form of fees or any other form payable to the investment manager by the InvIT; (v) units may be offered for sale to public,– i. ii. if such units have been held by the sellers for a period of at least one year prior to the filing of draft offer document with the Board: Provided that the holding period for the equity shares 179[, compulsorily  convertible  securities  (from  the  date  such securities are fully paid-up)] or partnership interest in the 180[holdco  or]  SPV  against  which  such  units  have  been received shall be considered for the purpose of calculation of one year period referred in this sub-regulation: 181[Provided  further  that  the  compulsorily  convertible securities, whose holding period has been included for the purpose of calculation for offer for sale, shall be converted to equity shares of the holdco or SPV, prior to filing of offer document.] subject  to  other  guidelines  as  may  be  specified  by  the Board in this regard;
(5) 182[(va)  The  amount for general  purposes, as mentioned  in objects of the  issue  in  the  draft  offer  document  filed  with  the  Board,  shall  not exceed Ten per cent of the amount raised by the InvIT by issuance of units.] If the InvIT fails to make any offer of its units, whether by way of public issue  or  private  placement,  within  three  years  from  the  date  of registration with the Board, it shall surrender its certificate of registration to the Board and cease to operate as an InvIT: Provided that the Board, if it deems fit, may extend the period by another one year: Provided further that the InvIT may later re-apply for registration, if it so desires.
(6) The  Board  may  specify  by  issue  of  guidelines  or  circulars  any  other requirements, as it deems fit, pertaining to issue and allotment of units by an InvIT, whether by way of public issue or private placement. Offer document or placement memorandum and advertisements
15. (1) The  offer  document  or  placement  memorandum  of  the  InvIT  shall contain material, true, correct and adequate disclosures to enable the investors to make an informed decision.
(2) Without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of  sub-regulation  (1),  the  offer document or  placement memorandum shall,– (i) not  be  misleading  or  contain  any  untrue  statements  or  mis- statements; not provide for any guaranteed returns to the investors; and include  such  other  disclosures  as  may  be  specified  by  the Board. (ii) (iii)
(3) The  offer  document  shall  include  all  information  as  specified  under
(4) Schedule III. 183[The  placement  memorandum  shall  contain  all  information  as specified under Schedule III, to the extent applicable.]
(5) No advertisement shall be issued pertaining to issue of units by an InvIT which makes a private placement of its units.
(6) With respect to advertisements pertaining to the offer of units by an InvIT with respect to public issue of its units,- (i) such advertisement material shall not be misleading and shall not contain  anything  extraneous  to  the  contents  of  the  offer document; if  an  advertisement  contains  positive  highlights,  it  shall  also contain risk factors with equal importance in all aspects including print size; the advertisements shall be in accordance with any circulars or guidelines as may be specified by the Board in this regard. (ii) (iii) Listing and trading of units the InvIT, fees and all other expenses proposed to be charged, tenure of the InvIT, investment strategy, risk management tools and parameters employed, key service providers, conflict of interest and procedures to identify and address them, disciplinary history of the sponsor(s), investment manager, trustee and their associates, the terms and conditions on which the investment manager offers investment services, its affiliations with other intermediaries, manner of winding up of the InvIT and such other information as may be necessary for the investor to take an informed decision on whether to invest in the InvIT.”
16. (1) It shall be mandatory for units of all InvITs to be listed on a recognized stock exchange having nationwide trading terminals, whether  publicly issued or privately placed: Provided that this sub-regulation shall not apply if the initial offer does not satisfy the minimum subscription amount or the minimum number of subscribers under regulation 14.
(2) The listing of the units shall be in accordance with the listing agreement entered into between the InvIT and the designated stock exchanges. 184[(2A)  In  the  event  of  non-receipt  of  listing  permission  from  the  stock exchange(s) or withdrawal of Observation Letter issued by the Board, wherever applicable, the units shall not be eligible for listing and the InvIT shall be liable to refund  the  subscription  monies,  if  any,  to  the  respective  allottees  immediately alongwith  interest  at  the  rate  of  fifteen  per  cent.  per  annum  from  the  date  of allotment.]
(3) The units of the InvIT listed in the designated stock exchanges shall be traded,  cleared  and  settled  in  accordance  with  the  bye-laws  of designated stock exchanges and such conditions as may be specified by the Board.
(4) The InvIT shall redeem units only by way of a buyback or at the time of delisting of units.
(5) The units shall remain listed on the designated Stock Exchanges unless delisted under regulation 17.
(6) The minimum public holding for the units of the 185[***] InvIT after listing shall  be  186[  in  accordance  with  sub-regulation  (1A)  of  regulation  14] failing which action may be taken as may be specified by the Board and by  the  designated  stock  exchanges  including  delisting  of  units  under regulation 17.
(7) The  minimum  number  of  unit  holders  in  an  InvIT  other  than  the sponsor(s) 187[, its related parties and its associates] ,– (a) in case of privately placed InvIT, shall be five, 188[***]; forming part of public shall be twenty, 189[***], (b) at all times post listing of the units, failing which action may be taken as may be specified by the Board and by the designated stock exchanges including delisting of units under regulation 17.
(8) With respect to listing of privately placed units,– (a) (b) its  units  shall  be  mandatorily  listed  on  the  designated  stock exchange(s)  within  thirty  working  days  from  the  date  of 190[allotment]; trading  lot  for  the  purpose  of  trading  of  units  on  the  designated stock exchange shall be rupees one crore. 191[       Notwithstanding the above, if an InvIT invests not less than eighty per  cent  of  the  value  of  the  InvIT  assets,  192[in  completed  and revenue  generating  assets,]  the  trading  lot  for  the  purpose  of trading of units on the designated stock exchange of such InvIT shall be rupees two crore;]
(9) With respect to listing of publicly offered units,– (a) its  units  shall  be  mandatorily  listed  on  the  designated  stock exchange(s) within twelve working days from the date of closure of the initial 193[public] offer: Provided  that  this  sub-regulation  shall  not  apply  if  the  initial 194[public] offer does not satisfy the minimum subscription amount or the minimum number of subscribers as specified in regulation 14; trading  lot  for  the  purpose  of  trading  of  units  on  the  designated stock exchange shall 195[consist of 100 units]. (b)
(10) Any person other than the sponsor(s) holding units of the InvIT prior to initial offer shall hold the units for a period of not less than one year from the date of listing of the units.
(11) The  Board  and  designated  stock  exchanges  may  specify  any  other requirements  pertaining  to  listing  and  trading  of  units  of  the  InvIT  by issuance of guidelines or circulars. Delisting of units and winding up of the InvIT
17. (1) The investment manager shall apply for delisting of  units of the InvIT to the Board and the designated stock exchanges if,- (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) the  public  holding  falls  below  the  specified  limit  under  sub- regulation (6) of regulation 16; the  number  of  unit  holders  of  the  InvIT  falls  below  the  limit  as specified under sub-regulation (7) 196[of regulation 16]; if there are no projects or assets  remaining under the InvIT for a period exceeding six months and InvIT does not propose to invest in any project in future: Provided that, the period may be extended by further 6 months, with  the  approval  of  unitholders  in  the  manner  as  specified  in regulation 22; the  Board  or  the  designated  stock  exchanges  require  such delisting for violation of the listing agreement or these regulations or the Act; the  197[****]  trustee  198[and  investment  manager]  requests  such delisting and such request has been approved by unit holders in accordance with regulation 22; 199[(ea)  the  trustee  and  the  Investment  Manager  of  a  privately  placed and listed InvIT chooses to convert InvIT to a privately placed unlisted InvIT  and  such  request  has  been  approved  by  unit  holders  in accordance with regulation 22: Provided that exit shall be provided to dissenting unitholders.] (f) unit holders apply for such delisting in accordance with regulation 22; the  Board  or  the  designated  stock  exchanges  require  such delisting in the interest of the unit holders: (g) Provided that if clause (a) or (b) is breached, the trustee may provide a period  of  six  months  to  the  investment  manager  to  rectify  the  same, failing which shall apply for such delisting: Provided  further  that  in  case  of  PPP  projects,  such  delisting  shall  be subject to relevant clauses in the concession agreement. The  Board  and  the  designated  stock  Exchanges  may  consider  such application for delisting for approval or rejection as may be appropriate in the interest of the unit holders. The Board may, instead of delisting of the units, if it deems fit,  provide additional time to the InvIT or parties to the InvIT to comply with sub- regulation (1). The  Board  may  reject  the  application  for  delisting  and  take  any  other action, as it deems fit, under these regulations or the Act for violation of the listing agreement or these regulations or the Act. The procedure for delisting of units of InvIT including provision of exit option  to  the  unit  holders  shall  be  in  accordance  with  the  listing agreement and  in accordance  with  procedure  as  may  be  specified  by the Board and by the designated stock exchanges from time to time. After  delisting  of  its  units,  the  InvIT  shall  surrender  its  certificate  of registration  to  the  Board  and  shall  no  longer  undertake  activity  of  an InvIT: 200[Notwithstanding the above, in case the delisting is done in terms of clause (ea) of sub-regulation (1), the InvIT may retain its certificate of registration and continue to undertake the activity of a privately placed and unlisted InvIT as specified in Chapter VIA.] The InvIT and parties to the InvIT shall continue to be liable for all their acts of omissions and commissions with respect to activities of the InvIT notwithstanding surrender of registration to the Board.
(2) (3)
(4) (5)
(6) (7) INVESTMENT CONDITIONS, RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS, BORROWING CHAPTER V AND VALUATION OF ASSETS Investment conditions and dividend policy
18. (1)
(2) (3) (b) The investment by an InvIT shall only be in 201[holdco and/ or] SPVs or infrastructure  projects  or  securities  in  India  in  accordance  with  these regulations  and  the  investment  strategy  as  detailed  in  the  offer document or Placement memorandum. In  case  of  PPP  projects,  the  InvIT  shall  mandatorily  invest  in  the infrastructure projects through 202[holdco and/ or] SPV. The InvIT may invest in infrastructure projects through SPVs subject to the following,– (a) no other shareholder or partner of the SPV shall 203[exercise] any rights that prevents the InvIT from complying with the provisions of these regulations and an agreement 204[has been] entered into with  such  shareholders  or  partners  to  that  effect  prior  to investment in the SPV: 205[Provided  that  the  shareholders’  agreement  or  partnership agreement  shall  provide  for  an    appropriate    mechanism    for resolution    of    disputes    between    the    InvIT    and    the  other shareholders or partners in the holdco and/or the SPV: Provided  further  that  the  provisions  of  these  regulations  shall prevail  in  case  of  inconsistencies  between  such  agreement(s) and the obligations cast upon an InvIT under these regulations.] in case the SPV is a company206[/LLP], the investment manager, in consultation with the trustee, shall appoint  207[majority of] the board  of  directors  or  governing  board  of  such  SPVs  208[as applicable] ; (c) the  investment manager  shall ensure  that  the  in  every  meeting including  annual  general  meeting  of  the  SPV,  the  voting  of  the InvIT is exercised. 209[(3A) The InvIT may invest in infrastructure projects through holdcos subject to the following,- (a) (b) the ultimate holding interest of the InvIT in the underlying SPV(s) is not less than twenty six per cent; no other shareholder or partner of the holdco or the SPV(s) shall 210[exercise] any rights that prevent the InvIT, the HoldCo or the SPV(s)  from  complying  with  the  provisions  of  these  regulations and  an  agreement  211[has  been]  entered into  with  such shareholders  or  partners  to  that  effect  prior  to  investment  in  the holdco/SPV: 212[Provided  that  the  shareholders’  agreement  or  partnership agreement  shall  provide  for  an    appropriate    mechanism    for resolution    of    disputes    between    the    InvIT    and    the  other shareholders or partners in the holdco and/or the SPV: Provided  further  that  the  provisions  of  these  regulations  shall prevail in case of inconsistencies between such agreement(s) and the obligations cast upon an InvIT under these regulations.] (c) the  investment  manager,  in  consultation  with  the  Trustee,  shall appoint the majority of the Board of directors or governing board of the holdco and SPV(s); the  investment  manager  shall  ensure  that  in  every  meeting  including  annual general meeting of the Holdco and SPV(s), the voting of the InvIT is exercised;]
(4) 213[ In case of InvIT as specified under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 14, the InvIT shall invest not less than eighty per cent of the value of the in eligible infrastructure projects or securities of companies or partnership interests of LLPs in infrastructure sector: Provided that un-invested funds may be invested in liquid funds or government securities or money market instruments or cash equivalents. 49
(5) InvIT assets in eligible infrastructure projects either directly or through holdcos or through SPVs: Provided  that  un-invested  funds  may  be  invested  in  instruments  as provided  under  sub-clause  (ii),  (iii),  (iv)  and  (v)  of  clause  (b)  of  sub- regulation 5 of Regulation 18.] In case of InvITs as specified under sub-regulation (4) of regulation 14,– not less than eighty per cent. of the value of 214[InvIT] the assets (a) shall  be  invested,  proportionate  to  the  holding  of  the  InvITs,  in completed and revenue generating infrastructure projects subject to the following; (i) if  the  investment  has  been  made  through  a  215[holdco and/ or] SPV216[(s)], whether by way of equity or debt or equity linked instruments or partnership interest, only the portion  of  direct  investments  in  217[completed  and revenue generating] projects by such 218[holdco and/ or SPV(s)]  shall  be  considered  under  this  sub-regulation and the remaining portion shall be included under clause (b); if  any  project  is  implemented  in  stages,  the  part  of  the project  which  can  be  categorised  as  completed  and revenue  generating  project  shall  be  considered  under this  sub-regulation  and  the  remaining  portion  shall  be included under clause (b); (ii) (b) not more than twenty per cent. of value of the  219[InvIT] assets, 220[***] shall be invested in,– than eighty per cent. of their operating income from infrastructure sector as per the audited accounts of the previous financial year.” by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) (i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v) infrastructure  projects,  whether under-construction directly or through 221[holdco and/ or] SPVs: Provided that investment in such assets shall not exceed ten per cent. of the value of the 222[InvIT assets]; listed or unlisted debt of companies or body corporate in infrastructure sector: Provided that this shall not include any investment made in debt of the 223[holdco and/ or SPV(s)]; equity shares of companies listed on a recognized stock exchange in India which derive not less than eighty per cent. of their operating income from infrastructure sector as  per  the  audited  accounts  of  the  previous  financial year; government securities; money market instruments, liquid mutual funds or cash equivalents; (c) if the conditions specified in clauses (a) and (b) are breached on account  of  market  movements  of  the  price  of  the  underlying assets  or  securities,  the  investment  manager  shall  inform  the same to the trustee and ensure that the conditions as specified in this regulation are satisfied within six months of such breach: Provided that the period may be extended to one year subject to approval from investors in accordance with regulation 22. 224[(5A) The investment conditions as specified at sub-regulation (4) and (5) of regulation  18  and  sub  -regulation  shall  be  complied  at  the  time  of  Offer document/placement memorandum and therafter.]
(6) With respect to distributions made by the InvIT and the 225[holdco and/or] SPV,- (a) not less than ninety per cent. of net distributable cash flows of the SPV shall be distributed to the InvIT  226[/holdco]in proportion of its  holding  in  the  SPV  subject  to  applicable  provisions  in Companies Act, 2013 or Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008; not less than ninety per cent. of net distributable cash flows of the InvIT shall be distributed to the unit holders; (b) 227[(ba) with regard to distribution of net distributable cash flows by the holdco to the InvIT, the following shall be complied: (i)  with respect to the cash flows received by the holdco from underlying SPVs, 100% of such cash flows received by the holdco shall be distributed to the InvIT; and (c) (ii)      with respect to the cash flows generated by the holdco on its own, not less than 90% of such net distributable cash flows shall be distributed by the holdco to the InvIT.] such distributions shall be declared and made not less than once every  six months in every financial year in case of publicly offered InvITs  and  not  less  than  once  every  year  in  case  of  privately placed InvITs and shall be made not later than fifteen days from the date of such declaration; subject to 228[sub-]clause (c), such distribution shall be 229[***] in the  manner  as  mentioned  in  the  offer  document  or  placement memorandum. (d)
(7) If any infrastructure asset is sold by the InvIT or 230[holdco or] SPV or if the  equity  shares  or  interest  in  the  231[holdco/]  SPV  are  sold  by  the InvIT,– (a) if  the  InvIT  232[***]  proposes  to  re-invest  the  sale  proceeds  into another infrastructure asset, it shall not be required to distribute any sales proceeds to the InvIT or  to the investors;
(8) (9)
(10) (11)
(12) (b) If the InvIT 233[***] proposes not to invest the sales proceeds into any other infrastructure asset  234[within a period of one year], it shall  be  require  to  distribute  the  same  in  accordance  with  sub- regulation (6). If the distributions are not made within fifteen days of declaration, then the investment manager shall be liable to pay interest to the unit holders at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum till the distribution is made and such interest shall be not be recovered in the form of fees or any other form payable to the investment manager by the InvIT. An InvIT shall not invest in units of other InvITs. An  InvIT  shall  not  undertake  lending  to  any  person  235[other  than  the holdco/ SPV(s) in which the InvIT has invested in]: Provided that investment in debt securities shall not be considered as lending. An InvIT shall hold an infrastructure asset for a period of not less than three years from the date of purchase of such asset by the InvIT, directly or through 236[holdco and/or] SPV: Provided  that  this  shall  not  apply  to  investment  in  securities  of companies in infrastructure sector other than SPVs. In case of any co-investment with any person(s) in any transaction,– (a) the investment by the other person(s) shall not be at terms more favourable than those to the InvIT; the investment shall not provide any rights to the person(s) which shall  prevent  the  InvIT  from  complying  with  the  provisions  of these regulations; the  agreement  with  such  person(s)  shall  include  the  minimum percentage of distributable cash flows that will be distributed and entitlement  of  the  InvIT  to  receive  not  less  than  pro  rata distributions and mode for resolution of any disputes between the InvIT and the other person(s). (b) (c)
(13) (14) No schemes shall be launched under the InvIT. The Board may specify any additional conditions for investments by the InvIT as deemed fit. Related party transactions
19. (1) All  related  party  transactions  shall  be  on  an  arms-length  basis  in accordance with relevant accounting standards, in the best interest of the unit holders, consistent with the strategy and investment objectives of the InvIT.
(2) (3)
(4) All related party transactions of an InvIT shall be disclosed,– (a) in the offer document or placement memorandum with respect to any such transactions entered into prior to the offer of units and any such proposed transactions subsequent to the offer; to the designated stock exchanges and unit holders periodically in accordance with the listing agreement and these regulations. (b) With respect to related party transactions with respect to  237[***] InvITs entered into after initial 238[public] offer, if,– (a) the total value of all the related party transactions, in a financial year,  pertaining  to  acquisition  or  sale  of  assets  239[whether directly  or  through  holdco  or  through  SPV,]  or  investments  into securities  exceeds  five  per  cent.  of  the  value  of  240[the]  InvIT 241[assets]; or the value of the funds borrowed from related parties, in a financial year, exceeds five per cent. of the total consolidated borrowings of the InvIT 242[,holdco and the SPV(s)], (b) approval from the unit holders shall be obtained prior to entering into any such subsequent transaction with any related party in accordance with regulation 22. Transaction  between  two  or  more  of  the  InvITs  with  a  common investment  manager  or  sponsor,  shall  be  deemed  to  be  related  party transactions for each of the InvITs and provisions of regulation 19 shall apply:
(5) (6) Provided  that  this  sub-regulation  shall  also  apply  if  the  investment managers  or  sponsors  of  the  InvITs  are  different  entities  but  are associates. With  respect  to  any  related  party  transaction,  details  of  any  fees  or commissions received or to be received by  243[such related party (ies)] shall be adequately disclosed to the designated stock exchanges. Where any of the related parties have an interest in a business which competes  or  is  likely  to  compete,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  with  the activities of the InvIT, the following details shall be disclosed in the offer document or placement memorandum,– (a) details of the such business including an explanation as to how such business shall compete with the InvIT; a  declaration  that  the  related  party  shall  perform  its  duty  in relation to the InvIT independent of its related business; declaration as to whether any acquisition of such business by the InvIT is intended and if so, details of the same thereof. (b) (c)
(7) The Board may specify additional guidelines with respect to related party transactions, as it deems fit. Borrowings and deferred payments
20. 244[(1) An InvIT, whose units are listed on a recognized stock exchange, may issue debt securities in the manner specified by the Board: Provided  that  such debt  securities  shall  be  listed on  recognized  stock exchange(s).]
245[(2)]  The aggregate consolidated borrowings and deferred payments of the InvIT  246[, holdco and the SPV(s),] net of cash and cash equivalents shall 247[not] exceed 248[seventy] per cent. of the value of the InvIT assets.
249[(3)]  If  the  aggregate  consolidated  borrowings  and  deferred  payments  of  the InvIT 250[, holdco and the SPV(s),] net of cash and cash equivalents exceed twenty five per cent. of the value of the InvIT assets, for any further borrowing,– 251[a) upto forty nine percent, an InvIT shall - (i) obtain credit rating from a credit rating agency registered with the Board; and (ii)  seek  approval  of  unitholders  in  the  manner  as  specified  in Regulation 22. b) above forty nine percent, an InvIT shall - (i)  obtain a  credit  rating  of  “AAA”  or equivalent for  its  consolidated borrowing and the proposed borrowing, from a credit rating agency registered with the Board; (ii)  utilize  the  funds  only  for  acquisition  or  development  of infrastructure projects; (iii) have a track record of atleast six distributions, in terms of sub- regulation (6) of regulation 18, on a continuous basis, post listing, in the  years  preceding  the  financial  year  in  which  the  enhanced borrowings are proposed to be made; (iv) obtain the approval of unitholders in the manner specified in sub- regulation (5A) of regulation 22.]
252[(4)] If  the  conditions  specified  in  sub-regulations (1)  and  (2)  are breached  on account  of  market  movements  of  the  price  of  the  underlying  assets  or securities, the investment manager shall inform the same to the trustee and ensure that the conditions are satisfied within six months of such breach. Valuation of assets
21. (1)
(2) (3)
(4) (5)
(6) (7) The  valuer  shall  not  be  an  associate  of  the  sponsor(s)  or  investment manager or trustee and shall have not less than five years of experience in valuation of infrastructure assets. Full valuation includes a detailed valuation of all assets of the InvIT by the valuer including physical inspection of every infrastructure project by the valuer. Full valuation report shall include the mandatory minimum disclosures as specified in Schedule V. A full valuation shall be conducted by the valuer not less than once in every financial year: Provided  that  such full  valuation  shall  be  conducted  at  the  end  of the financial year ending March 31st within two months from the date of end of such year. A half yearly valuation of the assets of the InvIT shall be conducted by the valuer for the half-year ending September 30th for a publicly offered InvIT for incorporating any key changes in the previous six months and such half yearly valuation report shall be prepared within one month from the date of end of such half year: 253[Provided  that  in  case  the  consolidated  borrowings  and  deferred payments of an InvIT, in terms of Regulation 20, is above forty nine per cent, the valuation of the assets of such InvIT shall be conducted by the valuer  for  quarter  ending  June,  September  and  December,  for incorporating  any  key  changes  in  the  previous  quarter  and  such quarterly report shall be prepared within one month from the date of the end of such quarter.] Valuation  reports  received  by  the  investment  manager  shall  be submitted  by  the  investment  manager  to  the  designated  stock exchanges within fifteen days from the receipt of such valuation reports. Prior  to  any  issue  of  units  by  publicly  offered  InvIT  other  than  bonus issue, the valuer shall undertake full valuation of all the InvIT assets and include the same in the Offer Document: Provided that such valuation report shall not be more than six months old at the time of such offer: Provided  further  that  this  shall  not  apply  in  cases  where  full  valuation has been undertaken not more than six months prior to such issue and no material changes have occurred thereafter.
(8) For  any  transaction  of  purchase  or  sale  of  infrastructure  projects, whether directly or through 254[holdco and/or] SPVs, for publicly offered InvITs,– (a) a full valuation of the specific project shall be undertaken by the valuer; (b) if,–
(1) (2) in  case  of  a  purchase  transaction,  the  asset  is proposed  to  be  purchased  at    a  value  greater  than hundred  ten  per  cent  of  the  value  of  the  asset  as assessed by the valuer; in case of a sale transaction, the asset is proposed to be sold at a value less than ninety per cent. of the value of the asset as assessed by the valuer, approval of the unit holders shall be obtained in accordance with regulation 22.
(9) No valuer shall undertake valuation of the same project for more than four years consecutively: Provided that the valuer may be reappointed after a period of not less than two years from the date it ceases to be the valuer of the InvIT. 255[***]
(11) (12) In  case  of any  material  development  that may  have  an  impact on  the valuation  of  the  assets  of  the  InvIT,  then  investment  manager  of  a publicly offered InvIT shall require the valuer to undertake full valuation of the infrastructure project under consideration within not more than two months from the date of such event and disclose the same to the trustee and  the  designated  stock  exchanges  within  fifteen  days  of  such valuation. The valuer shall not undertake valuation of any assets in which it has either been involved with the acquisition or disposal within the last twelve months  other  than  such  cases  where  the  valuer  was  engaged  by  the InvIT for such acquisition or disposal. CHAPTER VI RIGHTS OF UNIT HOLDERS, GENERAL OBLIGATIONS, DISCLOSURES AND REPORTING Rights and meetings of unit holders
22. (1) The unit holder shall have the rights to receive income or distributions as provided for in the offer document or placement memorandum.
(2) With respect to any matter requiring approval of the unit holders,- (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) a resolution shall be considered as passed when the votes cast by unit holders, so entitled and voting, in favour of the resolution exceed a certain percentage as specified in these regulations, of votes cast against; the voting may also be done by postal ballot or electronic mode; a notice of not less than twenty one days shall be provided to the unit holders; voting by any person who is a related party in such transaction as well as associates of such person(s) shall not be considered on the specific issue; investment  manager  shall  be  responsible  for  all  the  activities pertaining to conducting of meeting of the unit holder, subject to overseeing by the trustee: Provided  that  in  issues  pertaining  to  the  investment  manager such as change in investment manager including removal of the investment  manager  or  change  in  control  of  the  investment manager, trustee  shall  convene  and  handle  all  activities pertaining to conduct of the meetings: Provided further that in respect of issues pertaining to the trustee Including  change in the trustee, the trustee shall not be involved in any manner in the conduct of the meeting.
(3) 256[For an] InvITs,– (a) an annual meeting of all unit holders shall be held not less than once  a  year  within  one  hundred  twenty  days  from  the  end  of
(4) (b) financial  year  and  the  time  between  two  meetings  shall  not exceed fifteen months; with respect to the annual meeting of unit holders,– (i)  any  information  that  is  required  to  be  disclosed  to  the  unit holders  and  any  issue  that,  in  the  ordinary  course  of business,  may  require  approval  of  the  unit  holders  may  be taken up in the meeting including,–
(1) (2)  approval of auditor and fees of such auditor, as may be latest annual accounts and performance of the InvIT; required; latest valuation reports;
(3) (4)  appointment of valuer, as may be required;
(5)  any other issue; (ii)  for  any  issue  taken  up  in  such  meetings  which  require approval from the unit holders other than as specified in sub- regulation  (6)  under,  votes  cast  in  favour  of  the  resolution shall 257[ be more than] the votes cast against the resolution; In case of,– (a) (b) any approval from unit holders required under regulation  18, 19 and 21; any transaction, other than any borrowing, value of which is equal to or greater than twenty five per cent. of the InvIT assets; 258[(c) any borrowing in terms of the limit specified under clause (a) of (d) (e) (f) sub-regulation (3) of regulation 20;] any  issue  of  units  after  259[  initial  public  offer  by  an  InvIT]  ,  in whatever  form,  other  than  any  issue  of  units  which  may  be considered by the Board under sub-regulation (5); increasing  period  for  compliance  with  investment  conditions  to one  year  in  accordance  with  clause  (c)  of  sub-regulation  (5)  of regulation 18; any issue, in the ordinary course of business, which in the opinion of  the  sponsor(s)  or  trustee  or  investment manager,  is  material and requires approval of the unit holders, if any;
(5) 260[(fa) (g) de-classification of the status of sponsor;] any issue for which the Board or the designated stock exchanges requires such approval under this sub-regulation, approval from unit holders shall be required where votes cast in favour of  the  resolution  shall  261[be  more  than]  the  votes  cast  against  the resolution. In case of,– (a) any  change  in  investment  manager  including  removal  of  the investment  manager  or  change  in  control  of  the  investment manager; any material change in investment strategy or any change in the management fees of the InvIT; the 262[***] 263[trustee and] investment manager proposing to seek delisting of units of the InvIT 264[under clause (e) of sub-regulation
(1) of regulation 17]; any  issue,  not  in  the  ordinary  course  of  business,  which  in  the opinion  of  the  sponsor(s)  or    investment  manager  or  trustee requires approval of the unit holders; any issue for which the Board or the designated stock exchanges requires approval under this sub-regulation; any issue taken up on request of the unit holders  including,– (i) removal  of  the  investment  manager  and  appointment  of another investment manager to the InvIT; (b) (c) (d) (e) (f) (ii)  removal of the auditor and appointment of another auditor to the InvIT; (iii)  removal of the valuer and appointment of another valuer to the InvIT; (iv)  delisting of an InvIT, if the unit holders have sufficient reason to believe that such delisting would act in the interest of the unit holders; (v)  any  issue  which  the  unit  holders  have  sufficient  reason  to believe that is detrimental to the interest of the unit holders; (vi)  change in the trustee if the unit holders have sufficient reason to  believe  that  acts  of  such  trustee  is  detrimental  to  the interest of the unit holders, approval from unit holders shall be required where votes cast in favour of the resolution shall not be less than 265[one and a half] times the votes cast against the resolution: 266[***] 267[(5A) In case of any borrowing by an InvIT in terms of the limit specified in clause (b) of sub-regulation 3 of regulation 20, the approval from seventy five per cent. of the unit holders by value shall be obtained. (5B) For delisting of units of InvIT in terms of clause (ea) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 17, approval from not less than ninety per cent. of the unit holders by value shall be required and exit shall be provided to dissenting unitholders.] 268[(5C)  No  person, other  than  sponsor(s),  its  related  parties  and  its associates, shall acquire units of an InvIT which taken together with units held by such person and by persons acting in concert with such person in such InvIT, exceeds twenty- five per cent of the value of outstanding InvIT units unless approval from seventy five per cent. of the unit holders by value excluding the value of units held by parties related to the transaction, is obtained: Provided that if the required approval is not received, the person acquiring the units shall provide an exit option to the dissenting unit holders to the extent and in the manner as may be specified by the Board.]
(6) With respect to the right(s) of the unit holders under clauses (f) of sub- regulation (5),– (a) not  less than twenty  five  per  cent.  of  the  unit  holders by  value, other than any party related to the transactions and its associates, shall apply, in writing, to the trustee for the purpose;
269[(7) Disclosures
23. (1) (b) (c) on receipt of such application, the trustee shall require the issue with the investment manager to place the issue for voting in the manner as specified in these regulations; with respect to sub-clause (vi), not less than sixty per cent. of the unit holders by value shall apply, in writing, to the trustee for the purpose. In  case  of  any  change  in  sponsor  or  inducted  sponsor  or  change  in control of sponsor or inducted sponsor, - (a) prior to such change, approval from seventy five per cent. of the unit holders by value excluding the value of units held by parties related to the transaction shall be obtained (b)       if the required approval is not received,- (i) in  case  of  change  of  sponsor  or  inducted  sponsor,  the proposed  inducted  sponsor  shall  provide  the  dissenting  unit holders an option to exit by buying their units in the manner specified by the Board; (ii)  in  case  of  change  in  control  of  the  sponsor  or  inducted sponsor,  the  said  sponsor  or  inducted  sponsor  shall provide the  dissenting  unit  holders  an  option  to  exit  by  buying  their units in the manner specified by the Board; change  due  to  entry  of  a  new  sponsor  with  or  without  exit  of  an existing sponsor.] A  privately  placed  InvIT  shall  ensure  that  the  disclosures  in  the placement memorandum are in accordance with the sub-regulation (4) of regulation 15 and any circulars or guidelines issued by the Board in this regard.
(2) (3) A  publicly  offered  InvIT  shall  ensure  that  the  disclosures  in  the  offer document are in accordance with the Schedule III and any circulars or guidelines issued by the Board in this regard. The investment manager of all InvITs shall submit an annual report to all unit holders electronically or by physical copies and to the designated stock exchanges within three months from the end of the financial year.
(4) (5)
(6) The  investment  manager  of  shall  submit  a  half-yearly  report  to  the designated stock exchange within forty five days from the end of 270[***] half year ending 271[***] September 30th: 272[Provided  that  for  any  InvIT,  whose  units  are  listed  and  whose consolidated borrowings and deferred payments, in terms of regulation 20, is above forty nine per cent., such InvIT shall also submit a quarterly report to the designated stock exchange within thirty days from the end of every quarter ending June and December.] 273[Annual/  half  yearly  /quarterly  reports  shall  contain  disclosures  as specified under Part-A, Part-B and Part-C, respectively, of Schedule IV.] The  investment  manager  shall  disclose  to  the  designated  stock exchanges  any  information  having  bearing  on  the  operation  or performance  of  the  InvIT  as  well  as  price  sensitive  information  which includes but is not restricted to the following,– (a) acquisition  or  disposal  of  any  projects,  directly  or  through  274[ holdco or] SPV, value of which exceeds five per cent. of value of the InvIT assets; additional borrowing, at level of  275[holdco or] SPV or the InvIT, exceeding fifteen per cent. of the value of the InvIT assets ; additional issue of units by the InvIT; details of any credit rating obtained by the InvIT and any change in such rating; any issue which requires approval of the unit holders; any legal proceedings which may have significant bearing on the functioning of the InvIT; notices and results of meetings of unit holders, any instance of non-compliance with these regulations including any breach of limits specified under the regulations; any material issue that in the opinion of the investment manager or trustee needs to be disclosed to the unit holders. (b) (c) (d) (e) (f) (g) (h) (i)
(7) (8)
(9) The  InvIT  shall  also  submit  such  information  to  the  designated  stock exchanges and unit holders on a periodical basis as may be required under the listing agreement. The InvIT shall disclose to the designated stock exchanges, unit holders and the Board such information and in the manner as may be specified by the Board. The InvIT shall also provide disclosures or reports specific to sector or sub-sector in which the InvIT has invested or proposes to invest in the manner as may be specified by the Board. Submission of reports to the Board
24. The Board may at any time call upon the InvIT or parties to the InvIT to file such reports, as the Board may desire, with respect to the activities relating to the InvIT. Power to call for information
25. (1) The  Board  may  at  any  time  call  for  any  information  from  the  InvIT  or 276[holdco or SPV(s)] parties to the InvIT or 277[holdco or SPV(s)] any unit holder or any other person with respect to any matter relating to activity of the InvIT.
(2)  Where  any  information  is  called  for  under  sub-regulation  (1),  it  shall  be furnished within the time specified by the Board. Maintenance of records
26. (1) The investment manager shall maintain records pertaining to the activity of the InvIT, wherever applicable, including,– (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) (f) all  investments  or  divestments  of  the  InvIT  and  documents supporting the same including rationale for such investments or divestments; agreements entered into by the InvIT or on behalf of the InvIT; documents  relating  to  appointment  of  persons  as  specified  in sub-regulation (5) of regulation 10; insurance policies for infrastructure assets; investment management agreement; documents  pertaining  to  issue  and  listing  of  units  including placement  memorandum,  draft  and  final  offer  document,  in- principle  approval  by  designated  stock  exchanges,  listing agreement  with  the  designated  stock  exchanges,  details  of subscriptions, allotment of units, etc; distributions declared and made to the unit holders; disclosures and periodical reporting made to the trustee, Board, unit  holders  and  the  designated  stock  exchanges  including annual reports, half yearly reports, etc.; valuation reports including methodology of valuation; books of accounts and financial statements; audit reports; reports relating to activities of the InvIT placed before the board of directors of the investment manager; unit  holders'  grievances  and  actions  taken  thereon  including copies  of  correspondences  made  with  the  unit  holder  and  the Board, if any; any other material documents; (g) (h) (i) (j) (k) (l) (m) (n)
(2) The trustee shall maintain records, wherever applicable, pertaining to,– (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) (f) (g) (h) (i) certificate of registration granted by the Board; registered trust deed; documents  pertaining  to  application  made  to  the  Board  for registration as an InvIT; titles of the infrastructure assets: Provided  that  where  the  original  title  documents  are  deposited with the lender or any other person in respect of any loan or debt, the trustee shall maintain copies of such title documents; notices and agenda send to unit holders for meetings held; minutes of meetings and resolutions passed therein; periodical  reports  and  disclosures  received  by  the  trustee  from the investment manager; disclosures,  periodically  or  otherwise,  made  to  the  Board,  unit holders and the designated stock exchanges; any other material documents.
(3) The aforesaid records may be maintained in physical or electronic form: Provided  that  where  records  are  required  to  be  duly  signed  and  are maintained in the electronic form, such records shall be digitally signed. 278[CHAPTER VIA FRAMEWORK FOR PRIVATE PLACEMENT OF UNITS OF INVITS WHICH ARE NOT LISTED
26A. Applicability
(1) The provisions of this chapter shall apply to an InvIT, which proposes to issue units  or  has  issued  units,  on  a  private  placement  basis  in  terms  of  these regulations.
(2) The units so issued or proposed to be issued shall not be eligible to be listed on recognised stock exchanges.
(3) All the provisions of these regulations applicable to an InvIT, whose units are privately placed and listed or  proposed to be listed, shall be applicable to an InvIT issuing units/who has issued units under the provisions of this chapter, except for the following - (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) (f) (g) (h) (i) sub-regulation (4), (9),(10) and (22) of regulation 10; sub-regulation (1A) and  (2) of regulation 14; regulation 16; regulation 17; regulation 20; sub-regulation (6) of regulation 21; sub-clause (iv) of clause (f) of sub-regulation (5) of regulation 22; regulation 23; sub-regulation  (15)  of  regulation  9  in  respect  of  obtaining  prior approval of the Board for any change in the investment manager; (j) sub-regulation  (17)  of  regulation  9  in  respect  of  obtaining  prior approval of the Board in case of change in control of the investment manager.
26B. Raising of funds and investments
(1) An InvIT raising funds by way of a private placement in terms of the provisions of this Chapter– (a) shall  do it through a placement memorandum; 67 (b) shall  raise  funds  only  from  institutional  investors  and  body corporates, whether Indian or foreign: Provided that in case of foreign investors, such investment shall be subject  to  guidelines  as  may  be  specified by  the  Reserve  Bank  of India and the Government from time to time; (c) shall not accept  from  an  investor,  an  investment  of value less than rupees one crore; (d) (e) shall not raise funds from more than twenty investors; shall file a placement memorandum with the Board alongwith the fee as  specified  in  Schedule  II,  atleast  5  days  prior  to  opening  of  the issue; (f) shall file the final placement memorandum with the Board within a period of ten working days from the date of allotment of the units to the investors; (g) invest not less than eighty per cent of the value of the InvIT assets in eligible  infrastructure  projects  either  directly  or  through  holdcos  or through SPVs: Provided that un-invested funds may be invested in instruments as provided under sub-clause (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) of clause (b) of sub- regulation 5 of Regulation 18.
(2) An InvIT may undertake borrowing to the extent permitted under the trust deed, after seeking approval from such number of investors as specified in the trust deed.
26C. Disclosures
(1) An InvIT issuing units as per the provisions of this Chapter shall ensure that the disclosures in the placement memorandum are in accordance with sub-regulation
(4) of regulation 15 and any circular or guideline issued by the Board in this regard.
(2)  The  investment  manager  of  the  InvIT  shall  submit  annual  report,  half-yearly report  and  valuation  report  to  the  trustee  and  unit  holders  of  the  InvIT,  either electronically or through physical copies. 68
(3) The annual and half yearly reports shall contain disclosures as specified under Schedule IV, to the extent applicable.
(4)  The  investment  manager  shall  disclose  to  the  trustee  and  unitholders  any information  having  bearing  on  the  operation  or  performance  of  the  InvIT  which includes but is not restricted to the following– (a) acquisition or disposal of any projects, directly or through holdco or SPV,  value  of  which  exceeds  five  per  cent.  of  value  of  the  InvIT assets; additional issue of units by the InvIT; details of any credit rating obtained by the InvIT and any change in such rating; any issue which requires approval of the unit holders; any  legal  proceedings  which  may  have  significant  bearing  on  the (b) (c) (d) (e) functioning of the InvIT; (f) notices and results of meetings of unit holders, (g) any instance of non-compliance with these regulations including any breach of limits specified under the regulations; (h) any material issue that in the opinion of the investment manager or trustee needs to be disclosed to the unit holders.
26D. General
(1) The investment manager shall be responsible for all activities pertaining to the issue  of  units  including  filing  of  placement  memorandum  with  the  Board  and dealing with all matters relating to the allotment of units to the unit holders.
(2) The investment manager shall ensure that disclosures made in the placement memorandum  contains material, true, correct and adequate disclosures and are in  accordance  with  these  regulations  and  guidelines  or  circulars  issued  by  the Board. 69
(3) The investment manager shall ensure that the investments made by the InvIT are in accordance with the investment conditions as specified in this Chapter and in accordance with the investment strategy of the InvIT.
(4) The investment manager shall ensure that the audit of accounts of the InvIT is done not less than once a year and such report is submitted to the trustee and unitholders, either electronically or through physical copies.
26E. Surrender of certificate
(1)  An  InvIT  which  has  issued  units  as  per  the  provisions  of  this  Chapter,  may choose to surrender its certificate of registration to the Board and on acceptance of surrender of certificate of registration, it shall no longer undertake the activity of an InvIT.
(2) The InvIT and parties to the InvIT shall continue to be liable for all their acts of omissions and commissions with respect to activities of the InvIT notwithstanding surrender of registration to the Board.
26F. Listing of units An InvIT which has issued units in terms of the provisions of this Chapter, may list such  units  on  a  recognised  stock  exchange,  subject  to  it  complying  with  the requirements specified for privately placed and listed InvIT under these regulations and in the manner specified by the Board from time to time.] CHAPTER VII INSPECTION Boards right to inspect
27. The Board may suo motu or upon receipt of information or complaint appoint one or  more  persons  as  inspecting  officers  to  undertake  inspection  of  the  books  of 70 accounts, records and documents relating to activity of the InvIT 279[ or holdco or SPV or parties to the InvIT] for any of the following reasons, namely,-- (a) to  ensure  that  the  books  of  account,  records  and  documents  are  being maintained by the InvIT or parties to the InvIT in the manner specified in these regulations; (b) to inspect into complaints received from unit  holders, clients or any other person, on any matter having a bearing on the activities of the InvIT; (c) to  ascertain  whether  the  provisions  of  the  Act  and  these  regulations  are being complied with by the InvIT and parties to the InvIT; and (d) to  inspect  suo  motu  into  the  affairs  of  the  InvIT,  in  the  interest  of  the securities market or in the interest of investors. Notice before inspection
28. (1)   Before ordering an inspection under regulation 27, the Board shall give not less than ten days notice to the trustee of the InvIT.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is  satisfied  that  in  the  interest  of  the  investors  no  such  notice  should  be given, it may, by an order in writing, direct that the inspection of the affairs of the InvIT be taken up without such notice.
(3) During the course of an inspection, the InvIT against whom the inspection is being carried out and parties to the InvIT shall be bound to discharge their obligations as provided in regulation 29. Obligation  of  InvIT,  parties  to  the  InvIT  and  any  other  associate  persons  on inspection.
29. (1) It shall be the duty of every InvIT in respect of whom an inspection has been ordered under the regulation 27, parties to the InvIT and any other associate person who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of such InvIT, including representative of InvIT, if any, to produce to the inspecting officer such books, accounts and other documents in his custody or control and furnish him with such statements and information as the inspecting officer may require for the purposes of inspection.
(2) It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  InvIT,  parties  to  the  InvIT  and  any  other associate person who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct  and  affairs  of  the  InvIT  to  give  to  the  inspecting  officer  all  such assistance  and  to  extend  all  such  co-operation  as  may  be  required  in connection with the inspection and to furnish such information as may be sought by the inspecting officer in connection with the inspection.
(3) The inspecting officer shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to examine on oath and record the statement of any employees and directors of the InvIT 280[***] parties to the InvIT or 281[ or holdco or SPV(s)] any person responsible  for  or  connected  with  the  activities  of  InvIT  or  any  other associated person having relevant information pertaining to such InvIT.
(4) The inspecting officer shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to obtain authenticated copies of documents, books, accounts of InvIT, from any  person  having  control  or  custody  of  such  documents,  books  or accounts. Submission of report to the Board
30. The inspecting officer shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection submit an inspection report to the Board: Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he may submit an interim report. Communication of findings etc. to the InvIT
31. The  Board  may  after  consideration  of  the  inspection  report  and  after  giving reasonable  opportunity  of  hearing  to  the  InvITs  or  parties  to  the  InvIT  or  its representatives  or  any  such  person,  issue  such  directions  as  it  deems  fit  in  the interest of securities market or the investors in the nature of,– (a) requiring the InvIT to delist its units from the stock exchanges and surrender (b) (c) (d) its certificate of registration; requiring the InvIT to wind up; requiring the InvIT to sell its assets; requiring the InvIT or parties to the InvIT to take such action as may be in the interest of the investors; (e) prohibiting  the  InvIT  or  parties  to  the  InvIT  from  operating  in  the  capital market or from accessing the capital market for a specified period. CHAPTER VIII PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT Liability for action in case of default.
32.  An InvIT or parties to the InvIT or any other person involved in the activity of the InvIT  who  contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of  the  Act  or  these  regulations  or notifications, guidelines, circulars or instructions issued thereunder by the Board shall  be  liable  for  one  or  more  actions  specified  therein  including  any  action provided  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008. POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 282[CHAPTER VIII-A Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
32A.   (1)    The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all  or  any  of  the  provisions  of  these  regulations  for  a  period  as  may  be 73 specified  but  not  exceeding  twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in technological aspects relating to testing new products, processes, services, business  models,  etc.  in  live  environment  of  regulatory  sandbox  in  the securities markets.
(2)     Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. a  live  testing  environment  where  new  products,  processes,  services,  business models, etc. may be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering innovation in the securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board.] CHAPTER IX MISCELLANEOUS Power of the Board to issue clarifications.
33. In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  application  or  interpretation  of  these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications or guidelines in the manner as may be appropriate. 283[Power to relax strict enforcement of Regulations
33A.The Board may, in the interest of investors or for the development of the securities market, relax the strict enforcement of any requirement of these regulations, if the Board is satisfied that,- (a) requirement is procedural or technical in nature; or (b) the requirement may cause undue hardship to investors; or (c) the disclosure requirement is not relevant for a particular industry  or class of listed entities; or (d) the non-compliance was caused due to factors beyond the control of the issuer; or any provision of Act(s), Rule(s), regulation(s) under which the listed entity is established or is governed by, is required to be given precedence to.] Other InvITs.
3. (1) 22[ No person shall act as a stock broker, unless he obtains a certificate of registration from the Board: Provided that no separate registration shall be required for a clearing member registered with the Board to act as a stock broker in a stock exchange of which  he is admitted as a member, subject to grant of approval by the concerned stock exchange. registration shall be required for a stock broker registered with the Board to  operate in more than one stock exchange, of which he is admitted as a member, subject to grant of approval by the concerned stock exchange.]
(2)  An  application  for  grant  of  a  certificate  of  registration  as  a  stock  broker  shall  be submitted to the Board in Form A of Schedule I through the stock exchange23[*]of which he is admitted as a member.
(3)  The  stock  exchange  24[*]  shall  forward  the  application  form  to  the  Board  as  early  as possible, but not later than thirty days from the date of its receipt. Furnishing of information, clarification.
4.  (1)  The  Board  may  require  the  applicant,  or  the  concerned  stock  exchange,  to  furnish further information or clarifications, regarding the trading, settling or dealing in securities and matter connected thereto, to consider the application for grant of a certificate.
(2)  The  applicant  or,  its  principal  officer  shall,  if  so  required,  appear  before  the  Board  for personal representation. Consideration of application for grant of registration.
5.  The  Board  shall  take  into  account  for  considering  the  grant  of  a  certificate,  all  matters relating  to  trading,  settling  or  dealing  in  securities  and  in  particular  the  following,  namely, whether the applicant,- (a) is eligible to be admitted as a member of a stock exchange; (b) has the necessary infrastructure like adequate office space, equipment and man power to effectively discharge his activities; (c) has any past experience in the business of trading or dealing in securities, as the case may be; (d)  has  been  subjected  to  disciplinary  proceedings  under  the  rules,  and  bye-laws  of  a  stock exchange, or enforcement action under securities laws, with respect to his business as a stock- broker involving either himself or any of his partners, directors or employees; (e) is a fit  and proper person based on the criteria specified in  Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; (f)  has  any  financial  liability  which  is  due  and  payable  in  terms  of  the  Act,  the  Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or rules and regulations thereunder; (g)  has  obtained  certification  in  terms  of  SEBI  (Certification  of  Associated  Persons  in  the Securities Markets) Regulations, 2007 or as may be specified by the Board; (h) satisfies the minimum networth and deposit requirements as specified in Schedule VI, for the segment for which membership or approval is sought. Procedure for registration.
6.  The  Board  may,  after  consideration  of  the  application  under  regulation  3  and  on  being satisfied that the applicant has complied with the conditions laid down in regulation 5 grant a certificate of registration in Form D to the stock-broker, and send intimation to that effect to the stock exchange(s) of which it is a member. Procedure where registration is not granted.
7.(1) Where an application under regulation 3, does not fulfill the requirements mentioned in regulation  5,  the  Board  may  reject  the  application  after  giving  a  reasonable  opportunity  of being heard.
(2) The refusal to grant the registration certificate shall be communicated by the Board within thirty  days  of  such  refusal  to  the  applicant  and  to  the  concerned  stock  exchange  stating therein the grounds on which the application has been rejected.
(3) An applicant whose application has been rejected by the Board under sub-regulation (2), may  apply  within  a  period  of  thirty  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  such  intimation,  to  the board for reconsideration of its decision.
(4)  The  Board  shall  reconsider  an  application  made  under  sub-regulation  (3)  and communicate its decision as soon as possible in writing to the applicant and to the concerned stock exchange. Payment of fees.
8. Every applicant eligible for grant of a certificate of registration as a stock broker shall pay such fees and in such manner as specified in Schedule III or Schedule V as the case maybe: Provided that the Board may on sufficient cause being shown permit the stock-broker to pay such fees at any time before the expiry of six months from the date on which such fees become due. Conditions of registration.
9. Any registration granted by the Board under regulation 6 shall be subject to the following conditions, namely,- (a) the stock broker holds the membership of any stock exchange; (b)  he  shall  abide  by  the  rules,  regulations  and  bye-laws  of  the  stock  exchange  which  are applicable to him; (c) where the stock broker proposes change in  control, he shall obtain prior approval  of the Board for continuing to act as such after the change; (d) he shall pay fees charged by the Board in the manner provided in these regulations; (e) he shall take adequate steps for redressal of grievances, of the investors within one month of  the  date  of  receipt  of  the  complaint  and  inform  the  Board  as  and  when  required  by  the Board; (f) he shall at all times abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in Schedule II; and (g) he shall at all times maintain the minimum networth as specified in Schedule VI. 25[Approval for operation in other stock exchange(s) or segment(s) of stock exchange. Prior to substitution the Regulation read as follows: ‘Approval for operation in segments of stock exchange.
10.  (1)  Approval  for  operating  in  segments  of  a  stock  exchange  shall  be  granted  by  the  concerned  stock exchange.
10. (1)  A  stock  broker  registered  with  the  Board,  who  desires to  operate  in  any  other  stock exchange  or  any  other  segment(s)  of  the  stock  exchange  of  which  it  holds  a  membership, shall apply to the concerned stock exchange, in the manner specified by the Board.
(2)  A  clearing  member  registered  with  the  Board,  who  desires  to  operate  in  any  stock exchange  or  any  segment(s)  of  the  stock  exchange,  shall  apply  to  the  concerned  stock exchange in the manner specified by the Board.
(3)  On  receipt  of  an  application  under  sub-regulation  (1)  or  sub-regulation  (2),  the  stock exchange  shall,  on  being  satisfied  with  the  compliance  of  provisions  of  the  regulations  and other  relevant  eligibility  requirements  specified  by  the  Board,  grant  approval  to  operate  in that  stock  exchange  or  segment(s)  thereof  and  shall  inform  the  Board  about  such  grant  of approval.] 26[CHAPTER II-A REGISTRATION OF CLEARING MEMBERS Application for registration.
10A.  27[(1)  No  person  shall  act  as  a  clearing  member,  unless  he  obtains  a  certificate  of registration from the Board: Provided that no separate registration shall be required for a stock broker registered with the Board  to  act  as  a  clearing  member  in  a  clearing  corporation  of  which  he  is  admitted  as  a member, subject to grant of approval by the concerned clearing corporation.
(2) A stock broker registered with the Board, who desires to operate in any segment(s) of the stock exchange of which  it  holds  a  membership,  shall  apply  to  the  concerned  stock  exchange,  in  the  manner  specified  by  the Board.
(3)  A  clearing  member  registered  with  the  Board,  who  desires  to  operate  in  any  segment(s)  of  the  stock exchange which has promoted the clearing corporation, of which he is a member, shall apply to the concerned stock exchange in the manner specified by the Board.
(4)  On  receipt  of  an  application  under  sub-regulation  (2)  or  sub-regulation  (3),  the  stock  exchange  shall,  on being  satisfied  with  the  compliance  of  provision  of  the  regulations  and  other  relevant  eligibility  requirements specified  by  the  Board,  grant approval  for  operation in  any  segment(s) and  shall inform  the  Board about  such grant of approval.’ registration  shall  be required for  a  clearing  member  registered  with  the  Board to  operate in more than one clearing corporation, of which he is admitted as a member, subject to grant of approval by the concerned clearing corporation.]
(2)  An  application  for  grant  of  a  certificate  of  registration  as  clearing  member  shall  be submitted  to  the  Board  in  Form  AD  of  Schedule  I  through  the  clearing  corporation28[*]  of which he is admitted as a member.
(3) The Clearing Corporation29[*] shall forward the application form to the Board as early as possible, but not later than thirty days from the date of its receipt. Applicability of Chapter II.
10B.  The  provisions  of  Chapter  II  shall  be  applicable  mutatis  mutandis  to  registration  of  a clearing member, except as otherwise provided." Payment of fees.
10C.  Every  applicant  eligible for  grant  of  a  certificate  of  registration  as  a  clearing  member shall pay such fees and in such manner as specified in Schedule III or Schedule V as the case maybe: Provided that the Board may on sufficient cause being shown permit the clearing member to pay such fees at any time before the expiry of six  months from the date on which such fees become due. 30[ Approval for operation in other clearing corporation(s) or segment(s) of   clearing corporation. CHAPTER IV GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES To maintain proper books of account, records, etc.
17. (1) Every Stock Broker shall keep and maintain the following books of account, records and documents, namely:— (a) Register of transactions (Sauda Book); (b) Clients ledger; (c) General ledger; (d) Journals; (e) Cash book; (f) Bank pass book; 36[(g)  Documents  register  containing,  inter  alia,  particulars  of  securities  received  and delivered in physical form and the statement of account and other records relating to receipt and delivery of securities provided by the depository participants in respect of dematerialized securities;] (h) Member’s contract books showing details of all contracts entered into by him with other members of the same exchange or counterfoils or duplicates of memos of confirmation issued to such other members; (i) Counterfoils or duplicates of contract notes issued to clients; (j) Written consent of clients in respect of contracts entered into as principals; (k) Margin deposit book; (l) 37[****] (m) 38[****] 39[(n) Client account opening form in the format as may be specified by the Board.] Prior to the substation, it read as under:
(2)  Every  stock  broker  shall  intimate  to  the  Board  the  place  where  the  books  of  account, records and documents are maintained.
(3) Without prejudice to sub-regulation  (1), every stock broker shall, after the close of each accounting period furnish to the Board if so required as soon as possible but not later than six months from the close of the said  period a copy of the audited balance sheet  and profit and loss account as at the end of the said accounting period: Provided that, if it is not possible to furnish the above documents within the time specified, the Stock Broker shall keep the Board informed of the same together with the reasons for the delay and the period of time by which such documents would be furnished. Maintenance of books of account and records.
18.  Every  stock  broker  shall  preserve  the  books  of  account  and  other  records  maintained under regulation 17 for a minimum period of five years. 40[Appointment of compliance officer.
18A.  (1)Every  stock  broker  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be  responsible  for monitoring  the  compliance  of  the  Act,  rules  and  regulations,  notifications,  guidelines, instructions,  etc.,  issued  by  the  Board  or  the  Central  Government  and  for  redressal  of investors’ grievances. (2)The compliance officer shall immediately and independently report to the Board any non- compliance observed by him.] 41[***] 42[************] CHAPTER V PROCEDURE FOR INSPECTION Board’s right to inspect.
19.  (1)  Where  it  appears  to  the  Board  so  to  do,  it  may  appoint  one  or  more  persons  as inspecting  authority  to  undertake  inspection  of  the  books  of  account,  other  records  and documents of the stock brokers for any of the purposes specified in sub-regulation (2).
(2) The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be as follows, namely :— (a) to ensure that the books of account  and other books are being  maintained in the  manner required; (b)  that  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  rules,  regulations  and  the  provisions  of  the  Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, and the rules made thereunder are being complied with; Procedure for inspection.
20.  (1)  Before  undertaking  any  inspection  under  regulation  19,  the  Board  shall  give  a reasonable notice to the stock broker for that purpose.
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  where  the  Board  is  satisfied that in the interest of the investors or in public interest no such notice should be given, it may by an order in writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the stock broker be taken up without such notice.
(3) On being empowered by the Board, the inspecting authority shall undertake the inspection and  the  stock-broker  against  whom  an  inspection  is  being  carried  out  shall  be  bound  to discharge his obligations as provided under regulation 21. Obligations of stock-broker on inspection by the Board.
18C. (1) A stock broker carrying on the activity of buying, selling or dealing in securities, other than commodity derivatives,  shall  not  undertake  the  activity  of  buying,  selling  or  dealing  in  commodity  derivatives,  unless permitted by the Board.
(2)  A  stock  broker  carrying  on  the  activity  of  buying,  selling  or  dealing  in  commodity  derivatives,  shall  not undertake  the  activity  of  buying,  selling  or  dealing  in  securities  other  than  commodity  derivatives,  unless permitted by the Board”.
21. (1) It shall be the duty of every director, proprietor, partner, officer and employee of the stock-broker,  who  is  being  inspected,  to  produce  to  the  inspecting  authority  such  books, accounts and other documents in his custody  or control and furnish him with the statements and information relating to the transactions in securities market within such time as the said officer may require.
(2)  The  stock-broker  shall  allow  the  inspecting  authority  to  have  reasonable  access  to  the premises occupied by such stock-broker or by any other person on his behalf and also extend reasonable  facility  for  examining  any  books,  records,  documents  and  computer  data  in  the possession  of the stock-broker or any other person and  also provide copies of documents or other materials which, in the opinion of the inspecting authority are relevant.
(3)  The  inspecting  authority,  in  the  course  of  inspection,  shall  be  entitled  to  examine  or record  statements  of  any  member,  director,  partner,  proprietor  and  employee  of  the  stock- broker.
(4) It shall be the duty of every director, proprietor, partner, officer and employee of the stock broker  to  give  to  the  inspecting  authority  all  assistance  in  connection  with  the  inspection, which the stock broker may reasonably be expected to give. Submission of report to the Board.
22. The inspecting authority shall, as soon as may be possible, submit an inspection report to the Board. Action on inspection or investigation report.
23.  43[The  Board  shall  after  consideration  of  inspection  or  investigation  report  take  such action  as  it  may  deem  fit  and  appropriate  including  action  under  44[  Chapter  V  of  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008], Chapter VIA of the Act or section 24 of the Act.] Appointment of auditor.
24. Notwithstanding anything contained above, the Board may appoint a qualified auditor to investigate into the books of account or the affairs of the stock-broker: Provided  that,  the  auditor  so  appointed  shall  have  the  same  powers  of  the  inspecting authority as mentioned in  regulation  19 and the obligations of the stockbroker in  regulation 21 shall be applicable to the investigation under this regulation. CHAPTER VI PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 45[Liability for contravention of the Act, rules or the regulations.
25.  A  stock  broker  46[***]  who  contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  rules  or regulations framed thereunder shall be liable for any one or more of the following actions— (i) Monetary penalty under Chapter VIA of the Act. (ii) Penalties as specified under  47[Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008]  including  suspension  or  cancellation  of  certificate  of registration as a stock broker 48[***], (iii) Prosecution under section 24 of the Act. Liability for monetary penalty.
26.  A  stock  broker  49[***]    shall  be  liable for  monetary  penalty  in  respect  of  the  following violations, namely— (i) Failure to file any return or report with the Board. (ii) Failure to furnish any information, books or other documents within 15 days of issue of notice by the Board. (iii)  Failure  to  maintain  books  of  account  or  records  as  per  the  Act,  rules  or  regulations framed thereunder. (iv) Failure to redress the grievances of investors within 30 days of receipts of notice from the Board. (v) Failure to issue contract notes in the form and manner specified by the Stock Exchange of which such broker is a member. (vi) Failure to deliver any security or make payment of the amount due to the investor within 48 hours of the settlement of trade unless the client has agreed in writing otherwise. (vii) Charging of brokerage which is in excess of brokerage specified in the regulations or the bye-laws of the stock exchange. (viii)  Dealing  in  securities  of  a  body  corporate  listed  on  any  stock  exchange  on  his  own behalf  or  on  behalf  of  any  other  person  on  the  basis  of  any  unpublished  price  sensitive information. (ix)  Procuring  or  communicating  any  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  except  as required in the ordinary course of business or under any law. (x)  Counselling  any  person  to  deal  in  securities  of  any  body  corporate  on  the  basis  of unpublished price sensitive information. (xi) Indulging in fraudulent and unfair trade practices relating to securities. 50[(xii) Failure to maintain client account opening form.] (xiii) Failure to segregate his own funds or securities from the client’s funds or securities or using  the  securities  or  funds  of  the  client  for  his  own  purpose  or  for  purpose  of  any  other client. (xiv) 51[***] (xv) Failure to  comply with  directions issued by the Board under the Act  or the regulations framed thereunder. (xvi) Failure to exercise due skill, care and diligence. 52[(xvii) Failure to obtain prior approval of the Board in case of change in control of the stock broker.] (xviii)  Failure  to  satisfy  the  net  worth  or  capital  adequacy  norms,  if  any,  specified  by  the Board. (xix) Extending use of trading terminal to any unauthorized person or place. (xx) Violations for which no separate penalty has been provided under these regulations. Liability for action under the Enquiry Proceeding Regulations.
27.  A  stock  broker  53[***]  shall  be  liable  for  any  action  as  specified  in  54[Chapter  V  of  the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008]  including suspension or cancellation of his certificate of registration as a stock broker 55[***] 56[***], if he— (i) ceases to be a member of a stock exchange; or (ii) has been declared defaulter by a stock exchange and not re-admitted as a member within a period of six months; or (iii) surrenders his certificate of registration to the Board; or (iv) has been found to  be not  a fit and proper person by the Board under these or  any other regulations; or (v)  has  been  declared  insolvent  or  order  for  winding  up  has  been  passed  in  the  case  of  a broker 57[***] being a company registered under the Companies Act, 1956; or (vi) or any of the partners or any whole-time director in case a broker  58[***]  is a company registered  under  the  Companies  Act,  1956  has  been  convicted  by  a  court  of  competent jurisdiction for an offence involving moral turpitude; or (vii) fails to pay fee as per Schedule III of these regulations; or (viii) fails to comply with the rules, regulations and bye-laws of the stock exchange of which he is a member; or (ix) fails to co-operate with the inspecting or investigating authority; or (x)  fails  to  abide  by  any  award  of  the  Ombudsman  or  decision  of  the  Board  under  the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Ombudsman) Regulations, 2003; or (xi) fails to pay the penalty imposed by the Adjudicating Officer; or (xii) indulges in market manipulation of securities or index; or (xiii)  indulges  in  insider  trading  in  violation  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992; or (xiv) violates Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003; or (xv) commits violation of any of the provisions for which monetary penalty or other penalties could be imposed; or (xvi) fails to comply with the circulars issued by the Board; or (xvii) commits violations specified in regulation 26 which in the opinion of the Board are of a grievous nature. Liability for prosecution.
28. A stock broker 59[***] shall be liable for prosecution under section 24 of the Act for any of the following violations, namely :— (i) Dealing in securities without obtaining certificate of registration from the Board as a stock broker 60[***]. (ii)  Dealing  in  securities  or  providing  trading  floor  or  assisting  in  trading  outside  the recognized stock exchange in violation of provisions of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or rules made or notifications issued thereunder. (iii) Market manipulation of securities or index. (iv)  Indulging  in  insider  trading  in  violation  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992. (v) Violating the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003. (vi) Failure without reasonable cause— (a)  to  produce  to  the  investigating  authority  or  any  person  authorized  by  him  in  this behalf, any books, registers, (b)  to  appear  before  the  investigating  authority  personally  or  to  answer  any  question which is put to him by the investigating authority; or (c) to sign the notes of any examination taken down by the investigating authority. (vii) Failure to pay penalty imposed by the adjudicating officer or failure to comply with any of his directions or orders.] 61[***] 62[CHAPTER VI-A POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
28A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)  Any  exemption  granted  by  the  Board  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  subject  to  the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. testing  environment  where  new  products,  processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  may  be deployed on a limited set  of eligible customers for a specified period of time,  for furthering innovation  in  the  securities  market,  subject  to  such  conditions  as  may  be  specified  by  the Board.] 63[CHAPTER VII MISCELLANEOUS Power to remove difficulties
29. In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation or application of the provisions of these regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue directions through guidance notes or circulars. Power to specify procedures, etc. and issue clarifications
4.  (1)  The  listed  entity  which  has  listed  securities  shall  make  disclosures  and  abide  by  its obligations under these regulations, in accordance with the following principles: (a)  Information  shall  be  prepared  and  disclosed  in  accordance  with  applicable standards of accounting and financial disclosure. (b)  The listed entity shall implement the prescribed accounting standards in letter and spirit in the preparation of financial statements taking into consideration the interest of  all  stakeholders  and  shall  also  ensure  that  the  annual  audit  is  conducted  by  an independent, competent and qualified auditor. (c)  The  listed  entity  shall  refrain  from  misrepresentation  and  ensure  that  the information  provided  to  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  and  investors  is  not misleading. (d)  The listed entity shall provide adequate and timely information to recognised stock exchange(s) and investors. (e)  The  listed  entity  shall  ensure  that  disseminations  made  under  provisions  of  these regulations  and  circulars  made  thereunder,  are  adequate,  accurate,  explicit,  timely and presented in a simple language. (f)  Channels  for  disseminating  information  shall  provide  for  equal,  timely  and  cost efficient access to relevant information by investors. (g)  The listed entity shall abide by  all the  provisions of the applicable laws including the  securities  laws  and  also  such  other  guidelines  as  may  be  issued  from  time  to time by the Board and the recognised stock exchange(s) in this regard and as may be applicable. (h)  The listed entity shall  make the specified disclosures and follow its obligations in letter and spirit taking into consideration the interest of all stakeholders. (i)  Filings,  reports,  statements,  documents  and  information  which  are  event  based  or are filed periodically shall contain relevant information. (j)  Periodic  filings,  reports,  statements,  documents  and  information  reports  shall contain information that shall enable investors to track the performance of a listed entity  over  regular  intervals  of  time  and  shall  provide  sufficient  information  to enable investors to assess the current status of a listed entity.
(2) The listed entity which has listed its specified securities shall comply with the corporate governance provisions as specified in chapter IV which shall be implemented in a manner so as to achieve the objectives of the principles as mentioned below. (a) The rights of shareholders: The listed entity shall seek to protect and facilitate the exercise of the following rights of shareholders: (i)  right to participate in, and to be sufficiently informed of, decisions concerning fundamental corporate changes. (ii) opportunity to participate effectively and vote in general shareholder meetings. (iii)being  informed  of  the  rules,  including  voting  procedures  that  govern  general shareholder meetings. (iv) opportunity  to  ask  questions  to  the  board  of  directors,  to  place  items  on  the agenda of general meetings, and to propose resolutions, subject to reasonable limitations. (v) Effective  shareholder  participation  in  key  corporate  governance  decisions, such as the nomination and election of members of board of directors. (vi) exercise  of  ownership  rights  by  all  shareholders,  including  institutional investors. (vii) adequate mechanism to address the grievances of the shareholders. (viii) protection  of  minority  shareholders  from  abusive  actions  by,  or  in  the interest  of,  controlling  shareholders  acting  either  directly  or  indirectly,  and effective means of redress. 7 (b) Timely information: The listed entity shall provide adequate and timely information to shareholders, including but not limited to the following: (i)  sufficient and timely information concerning the date, location and agenda of general meetings, as well as full and timely information regarding the issues to be discussed at the meeting. (ii) Capital structures and arrangements that enable certain shareholders to obtain a degree of control disproportionate to their equity ownership. (iii)rights  attached to  all series and  classes of shares, which shall be disclosed to investors before they acquire shares. (c)  Equitable  treatment:  The  listed  entity  shall  ensure  equitable  treatment  of  all shareholders, including minority and foreign shareholders, in the following manner: (i)  All shareholders of the same series of a class shall be treated equally. (ii) Effective  shareholder  participation  in  key  corporate  governance  decisions, such as the nomination and election of members of board of directors, shall be facilitated. (iii)Exercise of voting rights by foreign shareholders shall be facilitated. (iv) The listed entity shall devise a framework to avoid insider trading and abusive self-dealing. (v) Processes  and  procedures  for  general  shareholder  meetings  shall  allow  for equitable treatment of all shareholders. (vi) Procedures  of  listed  entity  shall  not  make  it  unduly  difficult  or  expensive  to cast votes. (d) Role of stakeholders in corporate governance: The listed entity shall recognise the rights  of  its  stakeholders  and  encourage  co-operation  between  listed  entity  and  the stakeholders, in the following manner: (i)  The listed entity shall respect the rights of stakeholders that are established by law or through mutual agreements. (ii) Stakeholders  shall  have  the  opportunity  to  obtain  effective  redress  for violation of their rights. (iii)Stakeholders shall have access to relevant, sufficient and reliable information on  a  timely  and  regular  basis  to  enable  them  to  participate  in  corporate governance process. (iv) The listed entity shall devise an effective whistle blower mechanism enabling stakeholders, including individual employees and their representative bodies, to freely communicate their concerns about illegal or unethical practices. (e)  Disclosure  and  transparency:  The  listed  entity  shall  ensure  timely  and  accurate disclosure  on  all  material  matters  including  the  financial  situation,  performance, ownership, and governance of the listed entity, in the following manner: (i)  Information shall be prepared and disclosed in accordance with the prescribed standards of accounting, financial and non-financial disclosure. (ii) Channels  for  disseminating  information  shall  provide  for  equal,  timely  and cost efficient access to relevant information by users. (iii) Minutes  of  the  meeting  shall  be  maintained  explicitly  recording  dissenting opinions, if any. 8 . (f)  Responsibilities of the board of directors: The board of directors of the listed entity shall have the following responsibilities: (i)  Disclosure of information:
(1) Members  of  board  of  directors  and  key  managerial  personnel  shall disclose to the board of directors whether they, directly, indirectly, or on behalf  of  third  parties,  have  a  material  interest  in  any  transaction  or matter directly affecting the listed entity.
(2) The board of directors and senior management shall conduct themselves so as to meet the expectations of operational transparency to stakeholders while at the same time maintaining confidentiality of information in order to foster a culture of good decision-making. (ii) Key functions of the board of directors-
(1) Reviewing  and  guiding  corporate  strategy,  major  plans  of  action,  risk policy,  annual  budgets  and  business  plans,  setting  performance objectives,  monitoring  implementation  and  corporate  performance,  and overseeing major capital expenditures, acquisitions and divestments.
(2) Monitoring  the  effectiveness  of  the  listed  entity’s  governance  practices and making changes as needed.
(3) Selecting, compensating, monitoring and, when necessary, replacing key managerial personnel and overseeing succession planning.
(4) Aligning  key  managerial  personnel  and  remuneration  of  board  of directors  with  the  longer  term  interests  of  the  listed  entity  and  its shareholders.
(5) Ensuring a transparent nomination process to the board of directors with the  diversity  of  thought,  experience,  knowledge,  perspective  and  gender in the board of directors.
(6) Monitoring  and  managing  potential  conflicts  of  interest  of  management, members of the board of directors and shareholders, including misuse of corporate assets and abuse in related party transactions.
(7) Ensuring  the  integrity  of  the  listed  entity’s  accounting  and  financial reporting  systems,  including  the  independent  audit,  and  that  appropriate systems  of  control  are  in  place,  in  particular,  systems  for  risk management, financial  and operational  control, and compliance with  the law and relevant standards.
(8) Overseeing the process of disclosure and communications.
(9) Monitoring and reviewing board of director’s evaluation framework. (iii) Other responsibilities:
(1) The board of directors shall provide strategic guidance to the listed entity, ensure  effective  monitoring  of  the  management  and  shall  be  accountable to the listed entity and the shareholders.
(2) The  board  of  directors  shall  set  a  corporate  culture  and  the  values  by which executives throughout a group shall behave.
(3) Members  of  the  board  of  directors  shall  act  on  a  fully  informed  basis,  in good  faith,  with  due  diligence  and  care,  and  in  the  best  interest  of  the listed entity and the shareholders.
(4) The  board  of  directors  shall  encourage  continuing  directors  training  to ensure that the members of board of directors are kept up to date. 9
(5) Where decisions of the board of directors may affect different shareholder groups differently, the board of directors shall treat all shareholders fairly.
(6) The board of directors shall maintain high ethical standards and shall take into account the interests of stakeholders.
(7) The board of directors shall exercise objective independent judgement on corporate affairs.
(8) The board of directors shall consider assigning a sufficient number of non- executive  members  of  the  board  of  directors  capable  of  exercising independent  judgement  to  tasks  where  there  is  a  potential  for  conflict  of interest.
(9) The board of directors shall ensure that, while rightly encouraging positive thinking,  these  do  not  result  in  over-optimism  that  either  leads  to significant  risks  not  being  recognised  or  exposes  the  listed  entity  to excessive risk.
(10) The board of directors shall have ability to ‘step back’ to assist executive management  by  challenging the  assumptions  underlying:  strategy, strategic initiatives (such as acquisitions), risk appetite, exposures and the key areas of the listed entity’s focus.
(11) When committees of the board of directors are established, their mandate, composition  and  working  procedures  shall  be  well  defined  and  disclosed by the board of directors.
(12)  Members  of  the  board  of  directors  shall  be  able  to  commit  themselves effectively to their responsibilities.
(13) In  order  to  fulfil  their  responsibilities,  members of  the  board  of  directors shall have access to accurate, relevant and timely information.
(14) The  board  of  directors  and  senior  management  shall  facilitate  the independent directors to perform their role effectively as a member of the board of directors and also a member of a committee of board of directors.
(3) In case of any ambiguity or incongruity between the principles  and relevant regulations, the principles specified in this Chapter shall prevail. 10 CHAPTER III COMMON OBLIGATIONS OF LISTED ENTITIES General obligation of compliance.
5.  The listed entity shall ensure that  key managerial personnel,  directors, promoters or any other  person  dealing  with  the  listed  entity,  complies  with  responsibilities  or  obligations,  if any, assigned to them under these regulations. Compliance Officer and his Obligations.
6.  (1) A listed entity shall appoint a qualified company secretary as the compliance officer.
(2)  The compliance officer of the listed entity shall be responsible for- (a)  ensuring conformity with the regulatory provisions applicable to the listed entity in letter and spirit. (b) co-ordination  with  and  reporting  to  the  Board,  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  and depositories with respect to compliance with rules, regulations and other directives of  these authorities in manner as specified from time to time. (c)  ensuring  that  the  correct  procedures  have  been  followed  that  would  result  in  the correctness, authenticity and comprehensiveness of the information, statements and reports filed by the listed entity under these regulations. (d) monitoring email address of grievance redressal division as designated by the listed entity for the purpose of registering complaints by investors: Provided  that  the  requirements  of  this  regulation  shall  not  be  applicable  in  the  case  of units issued by mutual funds which are listed on recognised stock exchange(s) but shall be governed by the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996. Share Transfer Agent.
7.   (1)  The  listed  entity  shall  appoint  a  share  transfer  agent  or  manage  the  share  transfer facility in-house: Provided  that,  in  the  case  of  in-house  share  transfer  facility,  as  and  when  the  total number of holders of securities of the listed entity  exceeds one lakh, the listed entity shall  either  register  with  the  Board  as  a  Category  II  share  transfer  agent  or  appoint Registrar to an issue and share transfer agent registered with the Board.
(2) The listed entity shall ensure that all activities in relation to [***]11 share transfer facility are  maintained  either  in  house  or  by  Registrar  to  an  issue  and  share  transfer  agent registered with the Board.
(3) The listed entity shall submit a compliance certificate to the exchange, duly signed by both the  compliance  officer  of  the  listed  entity  and  the  authorised  representative  of  the  share transfer agent, wherever applicable, within one month of end of each half of the financial year, certifying compliance with the requirements of sub- regulation (2).
(4) In case of any change or appointment of a new share transfer agent,  the listed entity shall enter  into  a  tripartite  agreement  between  the  existing  share  transfer  agent,  the  new  share transfer agent and the listed entity, in  the manner as specified by the Board from time to time: Provided that in  case the existing share transfer facility is managed in-house, the agreement referred above shall be entered into between the listed entity and the new share transfer agent.
(5) The listed entity shall intimate  such appointment, referred to  in  sub-regulation (4),  to  the stock exchange(s) within seven days of entering into the agreement.
(6) The agreement referred to in sub-regulation (4) shall be placed in the subsequent meeting of the board of directors: Provided that the requirements of this regulation shall not be applicable to the units issued by mutual funds that are listed on recognised stock exchange(s). Co-operation with intermediaries registered with the Board.
8.   The  listed  entity,  wherever  applicable,  shall  co-operate  with  and  submit  correct  and adequate  information  to  the  intermediaries  registered  with  the  Board  such  as  credit rating  agencies,  registrar  to  an  issue  and  share  transfer  agents,  debenture  trustees  etc, within  timelines  and  procedures  specified  under  the  Act,  regulations  and  circulars issued there under: Provided  that  requirements  of  this  regulation  shall  not  be  applicable  to  the  units  issued  by mutual  funds  listed  on  a  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  for  which  the  provisions  of  the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1996  shall  be applicable. Preservation of documents.
9.  The listed entity shall have a policy for preservation of  documents, approved by its board of directors, classifying them in at least two categories as follows- (a)   documents whose preservation shall be permanent in nature ; (b)  documents with preservation period of not less than eight years after completion of the relevant  transactions: Provided  that  the  listed  entity  may  keep  documents  specified  in  clauses  (a)  and  (b)  in electronic mode. Filing of information.
10. (1) The listed entity shall file the reports, statements, documents, filings and any other information  with  the  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  on  the  electronic  platform  as specified by the Board or the recognised stock exchange(s).
(2) The  listed  entity  shall  put  in  place  infrastructure  as  required  for  compliance  with sub-regulation (1). 12 Scheme of Arrangement.
11.  The listed entity shall ensure that any scheme of  arrangement /amalgamation /merger /reconstruction /reduction of capital etc. to be presented to any Court or Tribunal does not  in  any  way  violate,  override  or  limit  the  provisions  of  securities  laws  or requirements of the stock exchange(s): Provided  that  this  regulation  shall  not  be  applicable  for  the  units  issued  by  Mutual  Fund which are listed on a recognised stock exchange(s). Payment of dividend or interest or redemption or repayment.
12.  The listed entity shall use any of the electronic mode of payment facility approved by the Reserve  Bank of  India, in  the manner specified in  Schedule  I, for the  payment of the following: (a)  dividends; (b)  interest; (c)  redemption or repayment amounts: Provided  that  where  it  is  not  possible  to  use  electronic  mode  of  payment,  ‘payable-at-par’ warrants or cheques may be issued: Provided  further  that  where  the  amount  payable  as  dividend  exceeds  one  thousand  and  five hundred rupees, the ‘payable-at-par’ warrants or cheques shall be sent by speed post. Grievance Redressal Mechanism.
13. (1) The listed entity shall ensure that adequate steps are taken for expeditious redressal of investor complaints.
(2) The  listed  entity  shall  ensure  that  it  is  registered  on  the  SCORES  platform  or  such  other electronic platform or system of the Board as shall be mandated from time to time, in order to handle investor complaints electronically in the manner specified by the Board.
(3) The  listed  entity  shall  file  with  the  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  on  a  quarterly  basis, within  twenty  one  days  from  the  end  of  each  quarter,  a  statement  giving  the  number  of investor  complaints  pending  at  the  beginning  of  the  quarter,  those  received  during  the quarter,  disposed  of  during  the  quarter  and  those  remaining  unresolved  at  the  end  of  the quarter.
(4) The statement as specified in sub-regulation (3) shall be placed, on quarterly basis, before the board of directors of the listed entity. Fees and other charges to be paid to the recognized stock exchange(s).
14.  The  listed  entity  shall  pay  all  such  fees  or  charges,  as  applicable,  to  the  recognised stock  exchange(s),  in  the  manner  specified  by  the  Board  or    the  recognised  stock exchange(s). 13 OBLIGATIONS OF LISTED ENTITY WHICH HAS LISTED ITS SPECIFIED CHAPTER IV SECURITIES Applicability.
15. (1)  The  provisions  of  this  chapter  shall  apply  to  a  listed  entity  which  has  listed  its specified securities on any recognised stock exchange(s) either on the main board or on SME Exchange or on institutional trading platform:
(2) The  compliance with the corporate governance provisions as specified in regulations   17, 12[17A,] 18, 19, 20, 21,22, 23, 24, 13[24A,] 25, 26, 27 and  clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation
(2) of regulation  46 and   para  C , D and E of Schedule V shall not apply, in respect of - (a) the listed entity having paid up equity share capital not exceeding rupees  ten crore and net worth not exceeding rupees twenty five crore, as on the last day of the previous financial year: Provided  that  where  the  provisions  of  the  regulations  specified  in  this  regulation becomes applicable to a listed entity at a later date, such listed entity shall comply with the  requirements  those  regulations  within  six  months  from  the  date  on  which  the provisions became applicable to the listed entity. (b) the listed entity which has listed its specified securities on the SME Exchange: Provided  that  for  other  listed  entities  which  are  not  companies,  but  body  corporate  or are  subject  to  regulations  under  other  statues,  the  provisions  of  corporate  governance provisions  as  specified  in  regulation    17, 14[17A,]  18,  19,  20,  21,  22,  23,  24, 15[24A,] 25, 26, 27 and  clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation  46 and   para  C , D and  E  of  Schedule  V  shall  apply  to  the  extent  that  it  does  not  violate  their  respective statutes and guidelines or directives issued by the relevant authorities. [(2A)  The  provisions  as  specified  in  regulation  17  shall  not  be  applicable  during  the insolvency  resolution  process  period  in  respect  of  a  listed  entity  which  is  undergoing corporate insolvency resolution process under the Insolvency Code: Provided that the role and responsibilities of the board of directors as specified under  regulation  17  shall  be  fulfilled  by  the  interim  resolution  professional  or resolution professional in accordance with sections 17 and 23 of the Insolvency Code. (2B)  The  provisions  as  specified  in  regulations  18,  19,  20  and  21  shall  not  be applicable during the insolvency resolution process period in respect of a listed entity which  is  undergoing  corporate  insolvency  resolution  process  under  the  Insolvency Code: Provided  that  the  roles  and  responsibilities  of  the  committees  specified  in  the respective  regulations  shall  be  fulfilled  by  the  interim  resolution  professional  or resolution professional.]16
(3)  Notwithstanding  sub-regulation  (2)  above,  the  provisions  of  Companies  Act,  2013  shall continue to apply, wherever applicable. Definitions.
16. (1) For the purpose of this chapter , unless the context otherwise requires - (a)  "control" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under the Securities and Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; (b)  "independent  director"  means  a  non-executive  director,  other  than  a  nominee director of the listed entity: (i)  who, in the opinion of the board of directors, is  a person of integrity  and possesses relevant expertise and experience; (ii)  who is or was not a promoter of the listed entity or its holding, subsidiary or  associate  company 17[or  member  of  the  promoter  group  of  the  listed entity]; (iii) who is not related to promoters or directors in the listed entity, its holding, subsidiary or associate company; (iv) who, apart from receiving director's remuneration, has or had no material pecuniary  relationship  with  the  listed  entity,  its  holding,  subsidiary  or associate  company,  or  their  promoters,  or  directors,  during  the  two immediately preceding financial years or during the current financial year; (v)  none  of  whose  relatives  has  or  had  pecuniary  relationship  or  transaction with the listed entity, its holding, subsidiary or associate company, or their promoters,  or  directors,  amounting  to  two  per  cent.  or  more  of  its  gross turnover or total income or fifty lakh rupees or such higher amount as may be  prescribed  from  time  to  time,  whichever  is  lower,  during  the  two immediately preceding financial years or during the current financial year; (vi) who, neither himself, nor whose relative(s) — (A) holds or has held  the position  of a key managerial  personnel  or is  or has been an employee of the listed entity or its holding, subsidiary or associate  company  in  any  of  the  three  financial  years  immediately preceding the financial year in which he is proposed to be appointed; (B) is  or  has  been  an  employee  or  proprietor  or  a  partner,  in  any  of  the three  financial  years  immediately  preceding  the  financial  year  in which he is proposed to be appointed, of —
(1)  a  firm  of  auditors  or  company  secretaries  in  practice  or  cost auditors  of  the  listed  entity  or  its  holding,  subsidiary  or  associate company; or
(2)  any  legal  or  a  consulting  firm  that  has  or  had  any  transaction with the listed entity, its holding, subsidiary or associate company amounting  to  ten  per  cent  or  more  of  the  gross  turnover  of  such firm; (C) holds  together  with  his  relatives  two  per  cent  or  more  of  the  total voting power of the listed entity; or (D) is a chief executive or director, by whatever name called, of any non- profit  organisation  that  receives  twenty-five  per  cent  or  more  of  its receipts or corpus from the listed entity, any of its promoters, directors or its holding, subsidiary or associate company or that holds two per cent or more of the total voting power of the listed entity; (E) is  a  material  supplier,  service  provider  or  customer  or  a  lessor  or lessee of the listed entity; (vii) who is not less than 21 years of age. 18[(viii)  who  is  not  a  non-independent  director  of  another  company  on  the board  of  which  any  non-independent  director  of  the  listed  entity  is  an independent director:] (c)  “material  subsidiary”  shall  mean  a  subsidiary,  whose  income  or  net  worth exceeds 19[ten] percent of the consolidated income or net worth respectively, of the  listed  entity  and  its  subsidiaries  in  the  immediately  preceding  accounting year. subsidiary. (d)  “senior management” shall mean officers/personnel of the listed entity who are members  of  its  core  management  team  excluding  board  of  directors  and normally this shall comprise all members of management one level below the 20 [“chief  executive  officer/managing  director/whole  time  director/manager (including  chief  executive  officer/manager,  in  case  they  are  not  part  of  the board)  and  shall  specifically  include  company  secretary  and  chief  financial officer.] Board of Directors.
17. (1) The composition of board of directors of the listed entity shall be as follows: (a)  board  of  directors  shall  have  an  optimum  combination  of  executive  and  non- executive directors with at least one woman director and not less than fifty per cent. of the board of directors shall comprise of  non-executive directors; 21[Provided that the Board of directors of the top 500 listed entities shall have at  least  one  independent  woman  director  by  April  1,  2019  and  the  Board  of directors  of  the  top  1000  listed  entities  shall  have  at  least  one  independent woman director by April 1, 2020; market capitalisation, as at the end of the immediate previous financial year.] (b)  where the chairperson of the board of directors is a non-executive director, at least one-third of the board of directors shall comprise of independent directors and where the listed entity does not have a regular non-executive chairperson, at least half of the board of directors shall comprise of independent directors: Provided that where the regular non-executive chairperson is a promoter of the listed  entity  or  is  related  to  any  promoter  or  person  occupying  management positions  at  the  level  of  board  of  director  or  at  one  level  below  the  board  of directors, at least half of the board of directors of the listed entity shall consist of independent directors. promoter" shall have the following meaning: (i)  if  the  promoter  is  a  listed  entity,  its  directors  other  than  the  independent directors, its employees or its nominees shall be deemed to be related to it; (ii) if the promoter is an unlisted entity, its directors, its employees or its nominees shall be deemed to be related to it. 22[(c) The board of directors of the top 1000 listed entities (with effect from April 1, 2019) and the top 2000 listed entities (with effect from April 1, 2020) shall comprise of not less than six directors. market capitalisation as at the end of the immediate previous financial year.] 23[(d) where the listed company has outstanding  SR equity shares, atleast  half of the board of directors shall comprise of independent directors.] 24[(1A)  No  listed  entity  shall  appoint  a  person  or  continue  the  directorship  of  any person  as  a  non-executive  director  who  has  attained  the  age  of  seventy  five  years unless  a  special  resolution  is  passed  to  that  effect,  in  which  case  the  explanatory statement  annexed  to  the  notice  for  such  motion  shall  indicate  the  justification  for appointing such a person.]
25[(1B). With effect from 26[April 1, 2022,] the top 500 listed entities shall ensure that the Chairperson of the board of such listed entity shall - (a) be a non-executive director; (b) not be related to the Managing Director or the Chief Executive Officer as per the definition of the term “relative” defined under the Companies Act, 2013: Provided that this sub-regulation shall not be applicable to the listed entities which do not  have  any  identifiable  promoters  as  per  the  shareholding  pattern  filed  with  stock exchanges. capitalisation, as at the end of the immediate previous financial year.]
(2) The board of directors shall meet at least four times a year, with a maximum time gap of one hundred and twenty days between any two meetings. 27[(2A) The quorum for every meeting of the board of directors of the top  1000 listed entities  with  effect  from  April  1,  2019  and  of  the  top  2000  listed  entities  with  effect from April 1, 2020 shall be one-third of its total strength or three directors, whichever is higher, including at least one independent director. directors  by  video  conferencing  or  by  other  audio-visual  means  shall  also  be  counted for the purposes of such quorum. market capitalisation, as at the end of the immediate previous financial year.]
(3) The  board  of  directors  shall  periodically  review  compliance  reports  pertaining  to  all laws applicable to the listed entity, prepared by the listed entity as well as steps taken by the listed entity to rectify instances of non-compliances.
(4) The board of directors of the listed entity shall satisfy itself that plans are in place for orderly succession for appointment to the board of directors and senior management.
(5)  (a) The board of directors shall lay down a code of conduct for all members of board of directors and senior management of the listed entity. (b) The code of conduct shall suitably incorporate the duties of independent directors as laid down in the Companies Act, 2013.
(6)  (a) The board of directors shall  recommend  all fees or compensation, if  any, paid  to non-executive directors, including independent directors and shall require approval of shareholders in general meeting. (b)  The requirement of obtaining approval of shareholders in general meeting shall not apply  to  payment  of  sitting  fees  to  non-executive  directors,  if  made  within  the limits  prescribed  under  the  Companies  Act,  2013  for  payment  of  sitting  fees without approval of the Central Government. (c)  The approval  of  shareholders mentioned in  clause (a), shall specify the limits for the  maximum  number  of  stock  options  that  may  be  granted  to  non-executive directors, in any financial year and in aggregate. 28[(ca)  The  approval  of  shareholders  by  special  resolution  shall  be  obtained  every year, in which the annual remuneration payable to a single non-executive director exceeds fifty per cent of the total annual remuneration payable to all non-executive directors, giving details of the remuneration thereof.] (d)  Independent directors shall not be entitled to any stock option. 29[(e) The fees or compensation payable to  executive directors who are promoters or  members  of  the  promoter  group,  shall  be  subject  to  the  approval  of  the shareholders by special resolution in general meeting, if- (i)  the  annual  remuneration  payable  to  such  executive  director  exceeds  rupees  5 crore or 2.5 per cent of the net profits of the listed entity, whichever is higher; or (ii) where there is more than one such director, the aggregate annual remuneration to such directors exceeds 5 per cent of the net profits of the listed entity: Provided  that  the  approval  of  the  shareholders  under  this  provision  shall  be  valid only till the expiry of the term of such director. section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013.]
(7) The  minimum  information  to  be  placed  before  the  board  of  directors  is  specified  in Part A of Schedule II.
(8) The chief executive officer and the chief financial officer shall provide the compliance certificate to the board of directors as specified in Part B of Schedule II.
(9)  (a)  The  listed  entity  shall  lay  down  procedures  to  inform  members  of  board  of directors about risk assessment and minimization procedures. (b)  The  board  of  directors  shall  be  responsible  for  framing,  implementing  and monitoring the risk management plan for the listed entity.
30[(10) The evaluation of independent directors shall be done by the entire board of directors which shall include - (a) performance of the directors; and (b) fulfillment of the independence criteria as specified in these regulations and their independence from the management: Provided that in the above evaluation, the directors who are subject to evaluation shall not participate.]
31[(11). The statement to be annexed to the notice as referred to in sub-section (1) of section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 for each item of special business to be transacted at a general meeting  shall  also  set  forth  clearly  the  recommendation  of  the  board  to  the  shareholders  on each of the specific items.] 32[Maximum number of directorships.
17A. The directors of listed entities shall comply with the following conditions with respect to  the  maximum  number  of  directorships,  including  any  alternate  directorships  that  can  be held by them at any point of time -
(1) A person shall not be a director in more than eight listed entities with effect from April 1, 2019 and in not more than seven listed entities with effect from April 1, 2020: Provided that a person shall not serve as an independent director in more than seven listed entities.
(2) Notwithstanding the above, any person who is serving as a whole time director / managing  director  in  any  listed  entity  shall  serve  as  an  independent  director  in  not more than three listed entities. For the purpose of this sub-regulation, the count for the number of listed entities on which a person is a director / independent director shall be only those whose equity shares  are listed on a stock exchange.] Audit Committee.
18. (1) Every listed entity shall constitute a qualified and independent  audit committee in accordance with  the terms of reference, subject to the following: (a) The audit committee shall have minimum three directors as members. (b) Two-thirds  of  the  members  of  audit  committee  shall  be  independent  directors 33[and  in  case  of  a  listed  entity  having  outstanding  SR  equity  shares,  the  audit committee shall only comprise of independent directors]. (c) All  members  of  audit  committee  shall  be  financially  literate  and  at  least  one member shall have accounting or related financial management expertise. mean  the  ability  to  read  and  understand  basic  financial  statements  i.e.  balance sheet, profit and loss account, and statement of cash flows. to have accounting or related financial management expertise if he or she possesses experience  in  finance  or  accounting,  or  requisite  professional  certification  in accounting, or any other comparable experience or background which results in the individual’s  financial  sophistication,  including  being  or  having  been  a  chief executive  officer,  chief  financial  officer  or  other  senior  officer  with  financial oversight responsibilities. (d) The  chairperson  of  the  audit  committee  shall  be  an  independent  director  and  he shall be present at Annual general meeting to answer shareholder queries. (e) The Company Secretary shall act as the secretary to the audit committee. (f) The audit committee at its discretion shall invite the finance director or head of the finance function, head of internal audit and a representative of the statutory auditor and any other such  executives to be present at the meetings of the committee: Provided that occasionally the audit committee  may  meet  without the presence of any executives of the listed entity.
(2)  The  listed  entity  shall  conduct  the  meetings  of  the  audit  committee  in  the  following manner: (a) The audit committee shall meet at least four times in a year and not more than one hundred and twenty days shall elapse between two meetings. (b) The quorum for audit committee meeting shall either be two members or one third of  the  members  of  the  audit  committee,  whichever  is  greater,  with  at  least  two independent directors. (c) The audit committee shall have powers to investigate any activity within its terms of  reference,  seek  information  from  any  employee,  obtain  outside  legal  or  other professional advice and secure attendance of outsiders with relevant expertise, if it considers necessary.
(3)  The  role  of  the  audit  committee  and  the  information  to  be  reviewed  by  the  audit committee shall be as specified in Part C of Schedule II. Nomination and remuneration committee.
19. (1)    The  board  of  directors  shall  constitute  the  nomination  and  remuneration committee as follows: (a) the committee shall comprise of at least three directors ; (b) all directors  of the committee shall be non-executive directors; and (c)  at least fifty percent of the directors shall be independent directors 34[and in case of a listed  entity  having  outstanding  SR  equity  shares,  two  thirds    of  the  nomination  and remuneration committee shall comprise of independent directors].
(2) The Chairperson of the nomination and remuneration committee shall be an independent director: Provided  that  the  chairperson  of  the  listed  entity,  whether  executive  or  non-executive, may  be  appointed  as  a  member  of  the  Nomination  and  Remuneration  Committee  and shall not chair such Committee. 35[(2A) The quorum  for a meeting of the nomination and remuneration committee shall be  either  two  members  or  one  third  of  the  members  of  the  committee,  whichever  is greater, including at least one independent director in attendance.]
(3) The  Chairperson  of  the  nomination  and  remuneration  committee  may  be  present  at  the annual  general  meeting,  to  answer  the  shareholders'  queries;  however,  it  shall  be  up  to the chairperson to decide who shall answer the queries. 36[(3A) The nomination and remuneration committee shall meet at least once in a year.]
(4) The role of the nomination and remuneration committee shall be as specified as in Part D of the Schedule II. Stakeholders Relationship Committee.
20. (1)  The  listed  entity  shall  constitute  a  Stakeholders  Relationship  Committee  to specifically look into 37[various aspects of interest] of shareholders, debenture holders and other security holders.
(2) The chairperson of this committee shall be a non-executive director. 38[(2A)  At  least  three  directors,  with  at  least  one  being  an  independent  director,  shall  be members  of  the  Committee 39[and  in  case  of  a  listed  entity  having  outstanding  SR  equity shares,  at  least  two  thirds  of  the  Stakeholders  Relationship  Committee  shall  comprise  of independent directors].]
40[(3)  The  Chairperson  of  the  Stakeholders  Relationship  Committee  shall  be  present  at  the annual general meetings to answer queries of the security holders.] 41[(3A) The stakeholders relationship committee shall meet at least once in a year.]
(4) The role of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee shall be as specified as in Part D of the Schedule II. Risk Management Committee.
21. (1) The board of directors shall constitute a Risk Management Committee.
(2)  The majority of members of Risk Management Committee shall consist of members of the  board  of  directors 42[and  in  case  of  a  listed  entity  having  outstanding  SR  equity shares,  at  least  two  thirds  of  the  Risk  Management  Committee  shall  comprise  of independent directors].
(3) The Chairperson of the Risk management committee shall be a member of the board of directors and senior executives of the listed entity may be members of the committee. 43[(3A) The risk management committee shall meet at least once in a year.]
(4) The  board  of  directors  shall  define  the  role  and  responsibility  of  the  Risk  Management Committee and may delegate monitoring and reviewing of the risk management plan to the  committee  and  such  other  functions  as  it  may  deem  fit  44 [such  function  shall specifically cover cyber security].
(5) The  provisions  of  this  regulation  shall  be  applicable  to  top  45 [500]  listed  entities, determined on the basis of market capitalisation, as at the end of the immediate previous financial year. Vigil mechanism.
22. (1) The listed entity shall formulate a vigil mechanism for directors and employees to report genuine concerns.
(2) The  vigil  mechanism  shall  provide  for  adequate  safeguards  against  victimization  of director(s) or employee(s) or any other person who avail the mechanism and also provide for  direct  access  to  the  chairperson  of  the  audit  committee  in  appropriate  or  exceptional cases. Related party transactions.
23. (1) The listed entity shall formulate a policy on materiality of related party transactions and  on  dealing  with  related  party  transactions 46[including  clear  threshold  limits  duly approved by the board of directors and such policy shall be  reviewed by the board of directors at least once every three years and updated accordingly]: transaction(s)  to  be  entered  into  individually  or  taken  together  with  previous transactions  during  a  financial  year,  exceeds  ten  percent  of  the  annual  consolidated turnover  of  the  listed  entity  as  per  the  last  audited  financial  statements  of  the  listed entity. 47[(1A) Notwithstanding the above, [with effect from July 01, 2019]48 a transaction involving payments made to a related party with respect to brand usage or royalty shall be considered material  if  the  transaction(s)  to  be  entered  into  individually  or  taken  together  with  previous transactions  during  a  financial  year,  exceed  49 {five}  percent  of  the  annual  consolidated turnover of the listed entity as per the last audited financial statements of the listed entity.]
(2) All related party transactions shall require prior approval of the audit committee.
(3) Audit  committee  may  grant  omnibus  approval  for  related  party  transactions  proposed  to be entered into by the  listed entity subject to the following conditions, namely- (a) the audit committee shall lay down the criteria for granting the omnibus approval in line with the policy on related party transactions of the listed entity and such approval shall be applicable in respect of transactions which are repetitive in nature; (b) the  audit  committee  shall  satisfy  itself  regarding  the  need  for  such  omnibus approval and that such approval is in the interest of the listed entity; (c) the  omnibus approval shall specify: the  name(s)  of  the  related  party,  nature  of  transaction,  period  of the indicative base price / current contracted price and the formula for (i) transaction, maximum amount of transactions that shall be entered into, (ii) variation in the price if any; and (iii) Provided  that  where  the  need  for  related  party  transaction  cannot  be  foreseen and  aforesaid  details  are  not  available,  audit  committee  may  grant  omnibus approval for such transactions subject to their value not exceeding rupees one crore per transaction. such other conditions as the audit committee may deem fit: (d) the audit committee shall review, at least on a quarterly basis, the details of related party  transactions  entered  into  by  the  listed  entity  pursuant  to  each  of  the  omnibus approvals given. (e)  Such  omnibus  approvals  shall  be  valid  for  a  period  not  exceeding  one  year  and shall require fresh approvals after the expiry of one year:
(4) All material related party transactions shall require approval of the shareholders through resolution  and 50[no  related  party  shall  vote  to  approve]  such  resolutions  whether  the entity is a related party to the particular transaction or not: [Provided  that  the  requirements  specified  under  this  sub-regulation  shall  not  apply  in respect of a resolution plan approved under section 31 of the Insolvency Code, subject to the  event  being  disclosed  to  the  recognized  stock  exchanges  within  one  day  of  the resolution plan being approved;]51
(5) The  provisions of sub-regulations (2), (3) and (4) shall not be applicable in the following cases: (a) transactions entered into between two government companies; (b) transactions entered into between a holding company and its wholly owned subsidiary whose  accounts  are  consolidated  with  such  holding  company  and  placed  before  the shareholders at the general meeting for approval. company as defined in sub-section (45) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013.
(6) The provisions of this regulation shall be applicable to all prospective transactions.
(7) For the purpose of this regulation, all entities falling under the definition of related parties shall 52[not vote to approve the relevant transaction] irrespective of whether the entity is a party to the particular transaction or not.
(8) All existing material related party contracts or arrangements entered into prior to the date of  notification  of  these  regulations  and  which  may  continue  beyond  such  date  shall  be placed  for  approval  of  the  shareholders  in  the  first  General  Meeting  subsequent  to notification of these regulations. and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018. 53 [(9)  The  listed  entity  shall  submit  within  30  days  from  the  date  of  publication  of  its standalone  and  consolidated  financial  results  for  the  half  year,  disclosures  of  related  party transactions  on  a  consolidated  basis,  in  the  format  specified  in  the  relevant  accounting standards for annual results to the stock exchanges and publish the same on its website.] Corporate governance requirements with respect to subsidiary of listed entity.
24. 54[(1) At least one independent director on the board of directors of the listed entity shall be  a  director  on  the  board  of  directors  of  an  unlisted  material  subsidiary,  whether incorporated in India or not. contrary  contained  in  regulation  16,  the  term  “material  subsidiary”  shall  mean  a subsidiary,  whose  income  or  net  worth  exceeds  twenty  percent  of  the  consolidated income  or  net  worth  respectively,  of  the  listed  entity  and  its  subsidiaries  in  the immediately preceding accounting year.]
(2) The  audit  committee  of  the  listed  entity  shall  also  review  the  financial  statements,  in particular, the investments made by the unlisted subsidiary.
(3) The minutes of the meetings of the board of directors of the unlisted subsidiary shall be placed at the meeting of the board of directors of the listed entity.
(4) The  management  of  the  unlisted  subsidiary  shall  periodically  bring  to  the  notice  of  the board  of  directors  of  the  listed  entity,  a  statement  of  all  significant  transactions  and arrangements entered into by the unlisted subsidiary. arrangement”  shall  mean  any  individual  transaction  or  arrangement  that  exceeds  or  is likely to exceed ten percent of the total revenues or total expenses or total assets or total liabilities,  as  the  case  may  be,  of  the  unlisted  55[***]  subsidiary  for  the  immediately preceding accounting year.
(5) A listed entity shall not dispose of shares in its material subsidiary resulting in reduction of its shareholding (either on its own or together with other subsidiaries) to less than fifty percent  or  cease  the  exercise  of  control  over  the  subsidiary  without  passing  a  special resolution in its General Meeting except in cases where such divestment is made under a scheme  of  arrangement  duly  approved  by  a  Court/Tribunal[,  or  under  a  resolution  plan duly approved under section 31 of the Insolvency Code and such an event is disclosed to the recognized stock exchanges within one day of the resolution plan being approved]56.
(6) Selling,  disposing  and  leasing  of  assets  amounting  to  more  than  twenty  percent  of  the assets of the material subsidiary on an aggregate basis during a financial year shall require prior approval of shareholders by way of special resolution, unless the sale/disposal/lease is  made under a scheme of arrangement duly  approved by  a Court/Tribunal[, or under a resolution plan duly approved under section 31 of the Insolvency Code and such an event is disclosed to the recognized stock exchanges within one day of the resolution plan being approved]57.
(7) Where  a  listed  entity  has  a  listed  subsidiary,  which  is  itself  a  holding  company,  the provisions of this regulation shall apply to the listed subsidiary in so far as its subsidiaries are concerned. 58[Secretarial Audit.
24A.  Every  listed  entity  and  its  material  unlisted  subsidiaries  incorporated  in  India  shall undertake  secretarial  audit  and  shall  annex  with  its  annual  report,  a  secretarial  audit  report, given by a company secretary in practice, in such form as may be specified with effect from the year ended March 31, 2019.] Obligations with respect to independent directors.
25. 59 [(1)  No  person  shall  be  appointed  or  continue  as  an  alternate  director  for  an independent director of a listed entity with effect from October 1, 2018.]
(2) The maximum tenure of independent directors shall be in accordance with the Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder, in this regard, from time to time.
(3) The  independent  directors  of  the  listed  entity  shall  hold  at  least  one  meeting  in  a  year, without the presence of  non-independent directors and members of the management and all the independent directors shall strive to be present at such meeting.
(4) The independent directors in the meeting referred in sub-regulation (3) shall, inter alia- (a) review the performance  of non-independent  directors and the board of directors  as a whole; (b) review the performance of the chairperson of the listed entity, taking into account the views of executive directors and non-executive directors; (c) assess  the  quality,  quantity  and  timeliness  of  flow  of  information  between  the management  of  the  listed  entity  and  the  board  of  directors  that  is  necessary  for  the board of directors to effectively and reasonably perform their duties.
(5) An independent  director shall be held  liable, only in  respect  of such acts  of omission or commission  by  the  listed  entity  which  had  occurred  with  his  knowledge,  attributable through processes of board of directors, and with his consent or connivance or where he had not acted diligently with respect to the provisions contained in these regulations.
(6) An  independent  director  who  resigns  or  is  removed  from  the  board  of  directors  of  the listed entity shall be replaced by a new independent director by listed entity at the earliest but  not  later  than  the  immediate  next  meeting  of  the  board  of  directors  or  three  months from the date of such vacancy, whichever is later: Provided that where the listed entity fulfils the requirement of independent directors in its board of directors without filling the vacancy created by such resignation or removal, the requirement of replacement by a new independent director shall not apply.
(7) The listed entity shall familiarise the independent  directors through various programmes about the listed entity, including the following: (a)  nature of the industry in which the listed entity operates; (b) business model of the listed entity; (c)  roles, rights, responsibilities of independent directors; and (d) any other relevant information. 60 [(8)  Every  independent  director  shall,  at  the  first  meeting  of  the  board  in  which  he participates as a director and thereafter at the first meeting of the board in every financial year or  whenever  there  is  any  change  in  the  circumstances  which  may  affect  his  status  as  an independent  director,  submit    a  declaration  that  he  meets  the  criteria  of  independence  as provided in clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 16 and that he is not aware of any circumstance or situation, which exist or may be reasonably anticipated, that could impair or impact his ability to discharge his duties with an objective independent judgment and without any external influence.
(9)  The  board  of  directors  of  the  listed  entity  shall  take  on  record  the  declaration  and confirmation submitted by the independent director under sub-regulation (8) after undertaking due assessment of the veracity of the same.
(10)  With  effect  from  October  1,  2018,  the  top  500  listed  entities  by  market  capitalization calculated  as  on  March  31  of  the  preceding  financial  year,  shall  undertake  Directors  and Officers insurance (‘D and O insurance’) for all their independent directors of such quantum and for such risks as may be determined by its board of directors.] 61[Obligations with respect to employees including senior management, key managerial persons, directors and promoters.]
26. (1) A director shall not be a member in more than ten committees or act as chairperson of more than five committees across all listed entities in which he is a director which shall be determined as follows: (a)  the  limit  of  the  committees  on  which  a  director  may    serve  in  all  public  limited companies,  whether  listed  or  not,  shall  be  included  and  all  other  companies including  private  limited  companies,  foreign  companies  and  companies  under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 shall be excluded; (b) for the purpose of determination of limit, chairpersonship and membership of the audit  committee  and  the  Stakeholders'  Relationship  Committee  alone  shall  be considered.
(2) Every  director  shall  inform  the  listed  entity  about  the  committee  positions  he  or  she occupies in other listed entities and notify changes as and when they take place.
(3) All  members  of  the  board  of  directors  and  senior  management  personnel  shall  affirm compliance with the code of conduct of board of directors and senior management on an annual basis.
(4)  Non-executive  directors  shall  disclose  their  shareholding,  held  either  by  them  or  on  a beneficial basis for any other persons in the listed entity in which they are proposed to be appointed as directors, in the notice to the general meeting called for appointment of such director.
(5) Senior  management  shall  make  disclosures  to  the  board  of  directors  relating  to  all material,  financial  and  commercial  transactions,  where  they  have  personal  interest  that may have a potential conflict with the interest of the listed entity at large. in the shares of listed entity, commercial dealings with bodies, which have shareholding of management and their relatives etc.
62[(6) No employee including key managerial personnel or director or promoter of a listed entity  shall  enter  into  any  agreement  for  himself  or  on  behalf  of  any  other  person,  with any shareholder or any other third party with regard to compensation or profit sharing in connection with  dealings in  the securities of such listed entity, unless prior approval  for the same has been obtained from the Board of Directors as well as public shareholders by way of an ordinary resolution: Provided  that  such  agreement,  if  any,  whether  subsisting  or  expired,  entered  during  the preceding three  years from the date of coming into  force of this sub-regulation,  shall be disclosed to the stock exchanges for public dissemination: Provided further that subsisting agreement, if any, as on the date of coming into force of this  sub-regulation  shall  be  placed  for  approval  before  the  Board  of  Directors  in  the forthcoming Board meeting: Provided further that if the Board of Directors approve such agreement, the same shall be placed before the public shareholders for approval by way of an ordinary resolution in the forthcoming general meeting: Provided further that all interested persons involved in the transaction covered under the agreement shall abstain from voting in the general meeting. person  holding  voting  rights  in  the  listed  entity  and  who  is  in  any  manner,  whether directly or indirectly, interested in an agreement or proposed agreement, entered into or to be  entered  into  by  such  a  person  or  by  any  employee  or  key  managerial  personnel  or director  or  promoter  of  such  listed  entity  with  any  shareholder  or  any  other  third  party with  respect  to  compensation  or  profit  sharing  in  connection  with  the  securities  of  such listed entity.] Other corporate governance requirements.
27. (1)  The  listed  entity  may,  at  its  discretion,  comply  with  requirements  as  specified  in Part E of Schedule II.
(2) (a) The listed entity shall submit a quarterly compliance report  on corporate governance in  the  format  as  specified  by  the  Board  from  time  to  time  to  the  recognised  stock exchange(s) within fifteen days from close of the quarter. (b) Details  of  all  material  transactions  with  related  parties  shall  be  disclosed  along  with the report mentioned in clause (a) of sub-regulation (2). (c)  The report mentioned in clause (a) of sub-regulation (2) shall be signed either by the compliance officer or the chief executive officer of the listed entity. In-principle approval of recognized stock exchange(s).
28. (1)  The  listed  entity,  before  issuing  securities,  shall  obtain  an  ‘in-principle’  approval from recognised stock exchange(s) in the following manner: (a)  where  the  securities  are  listed  only  on  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  having nationwide trading terminals, from all such stock exchange(s); (b)  where  the  securities  are  not  listed  on  any  recognised  stock  exchange  having nationwide trading terminals, from all the stock exchange(s) in which the securities of the issuer are proposed to be listed; (c)  where the securities are listed on recognised stock exchange(s) having nationwide trading  terminals  as  well  as  on  the  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  not  having nationwide  trading  terminals,  from  all  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  having nationwide trading terminals:
(2)   The requirement of obtaining in-principle approval  from  recognised stock exchange(s), shall  not  be  applicable  for  securities  issued  pursuant  to  the  scheme  of  arrangement  for which  the  listed  entity  has  already  obtained  No-Objection  Letter  from  recognised  stock exchange(s) in accordance with regulation 37. Prior Intimations.
29. (1) The listed entity shall give prior intimation to stock exchange about the meeting of the board of directors in which any of the following proposals is due to be considered: (a) financial  results viz. quarterly, half yearly, or annual, as  the  case  may  be; (b) proposal for buyback of securities; (c) proposal for voluntary delisting by the listed entity from the stock exchange(s); 29 (d) fund  raising  by  way  of  further  public  offer,  rights  issue,  American  Depository Receipts/Global  Depository  Receipts/Foreign  Currency  Convertible  Bonds, qualified institutions placement, debt issue, preferential issue or any other method and for determination of issue price: Provided that intimation shall also be given in case of any annual general   meeting  or extraordinary general meeting or postal ballot that is proposed to be held for obtaining shareholder approval for further fund raising indicating type of issuance. (e) declaration/ recommendation of dividend, issue of convertible securities including convertible  debentures  or  of  debentures  carrying  a  right  to  subscribe  to  equity shares or the passing over of dividend. (f) the  proposal  for  declaration  of  bonus  securities  where  such  proposal  is communicated  to  the  board  of  directors  of  the  listed  entity  as  part  of  the  agenda papers: 63[***]
(2) The intimation required under sub-regulation (1), shall be given at least two working days in advance, excluding the date of the intimation  and date of the meeting: Provided that intimation regarding item specified in clause (a) of sub-regulation (1), to be  discussed  at  the  meeting  of  board  of  directors  shall  be  given  at  least  five  days  in advance    (excluding  the  date  of  the  intimation  and  date  of  the  meeting),  and  such intimation shall  include the date of such  meeting of board of directors.
(3) The listed entity shall give  intimation to the stock exchange(s) at least eleven working days before any of the following proposal is placed before the board of directors - (a) any  alteration  in  the  form  or  nature  of  any  of  its  securities  that  are  listed  on  the stock exchange or in the rights or privileges of the holders thereof. (b) any  alteration  in  the  date  on  which,  the  interest  on  debentures  or    bonds,  or    the redemption  amount  of  redeemable  shares  or  of  debentures  or    bonds,  shall  be payable. Disclosure of events or information.
30. (1) Every listed entity shall make disclosures of any events or information which, in the opinion of the board of directors of the listed company, is material.
(2) Events specified in Para  A of Part A of Schedule III are deemed to be material events and listed entity shall make disclosure of such events.
(3) The listed entity shall make disclosure of events specified in Para B of Part A  of Schedule  III, based on application of the guidelines for materiality, as specified in sub-regulation (4).
(4)  (i)  The  listed  entity  shall  consider  the  following  criteria  for  determination  of materiality of events/ information: (a)the  omission  of  an  event  or  information,  which  is  likely  to  result  in discontinuity  or   alteration  of  event  or  information  already  available publicly; or (b)the  omission  of  an  event  or  information  is  likely  to  result  in  significant market reaction if the said omission came to light at a later date; (c)In  case  where  the  criteria  specified  in  sub-clauses  (a)  and  (b)  are  not applicable,  an  event/information  may  be  treated  as  being  material  if  in  the opinion  of  the  board  of  directors  of  listed  entity,  the  event  /  information  is considered material. (ii) The listed entity shall frame a policy for determination of materiality, based on  criteria  specified  in  this  sub-regulation,  duly  approved  by  its  board  of directors, which shall be disclosed on its website.
(5)  The  board  of  directors  of  the  listed  entity  shall  authorize  one  or  more  Key Managerial  Personnel  for  the  purpose  of  determining  materiality  of  an  event  or information  and  for  the  purpose  of  making  disclosures  to  stock  exchange(s)  under this  regulation  and  the  contact  details  of  such  personnel  shall  be  also  disclosed  to the stock exchange(s) and as well as on the listed entity's website.
(6)  The  listed  entity  shall  first  disclose  to  stock  exchange(s)  of  all  events,  as specified  in  Part  A  of  Schedule  III,  or  information  as  soon  as  reasonably  possible and not later than twenty four hours from the occurrence of event or information: Provided that in  case the disclosure is made after twenty  four  hours of  occurrence of  the  event  or  information,  the  listed  entity  shall,  along  with  such  disclosures provide explanation for delay: Provided  further  that  disclosure  with  respect  to  events  specified  in  sub-para  4  of Para  A  of  Part  A  of  Schedule  III  shall  be  made  within  thirty  minutes  of  the conclusion of the board meeting.
(7) The listed entity shall, with respect to disclosures referred to in this regulation, make disclosures updating material developments on a regular basis, till such time the event is resolved/closed, with relevant explanations.
(8)   The  listed  entity  shall  disclose  on  its  website  all  such  events  or  information which  has  been  disclosed  to  stock  exchange(s)  under  this  regulation  ,  and  such disclosures shall be hosted on the website of the listed entity for a minimum period of  five  years  and  thereafter  as  per  the  archival  policy  of  the  listed  entity,  as disclosed on its website.
(9)  The  listed  entity  shall  disclose  all  events  or  information  with  respect  to subsidiaries which are material for the listed entity. 31
(10) The listed entity shall provide specific and adequate reply to all queries raised by stock exchange(s) with respect to any events or information: Provided that the stock exchange(s) shall disseminate information and clarification as soon as reasonably practicable.
(11) The listed entity may on its own initiative also, confirm or deny any reported event or information to stock exchange(s).
(12)  In  case  where  an  event  occurs  or  an  information  is  available  with  the  listed entity,  which has not been indicated in Para A or B of Part A of Schedule III, but which may have material effect on it, the  listed entity is required to make adequate disclosures in regard thereof. Holding of specified securities and shareholding pattern.
31. (1) The listed entity shall submit to the stock exchange(s) a statement showing holding of securities and shareholding pattern separately  for  each  class  of  securities, in the format specified by the Board from time to time within the following timelines - (a)  one day prior to listing of its securities on the stock exchange(s); (b) on a quarterly basis, within twenty one days from the end of each quarter; and, (c)  within  ten  days  of  any  capital  restructuring  of  the  listed  entity  resulting  in  a change exceeding two per cent of the total paid-up share capital: Provided that in case of listed entities which have listed their specified securities on SME Exchange,  the  above  statements  shall  be  submitted  on  a  half  yearly  basis  within  twenty one days from the end of each half year.
(2) The  listed  entity  shall  ensure  that  hundred  percent  of  shareholding  of  promoter(s)  and promoter  group  is  in  dematerialized  form  and  the  same  is  maintained  on  a  continuous basis in the manner as specified by the Board.
(3) The listed entity shall  comply with circulars or directions issued by the Board from time to time with respect to maintenance of shareholding in dematerialized form.
64[(4)  All  entities  falling  under  promoter  and  promoter  group  shall  be  disclosed  separately  in the  shareholding  pattern  appearing  on  the  website  of  all  stock  exchanges  having nationwide  trading  terminals  where  the  specified  securities  of  the  entity  are  listed,  in accordance with the formats specified by the Board.] 65[Conditions for re-classification of any person as promoter / public
31A. (1) For the purpose of this regulation: (a) “promoter(s) seeking re-classification” shall mean all such promoters/persons belonging to the promoter group seeking re-classification of status as public. (b) “persons related to the promoter(s) seeking re-classification” shall mean such persons  with  respect  to  that  promoter(s)  seeking  re-classification  who  fall under  sub-clauses  (ii),  (iii)  and  (iv)  of  clause  (pp)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of regulation 2 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018.
(2)  Re-classification  of  the  status  of  any  person  as  a  promoter  or  public  shall  be permitted  by  the  stock  exchanges  only  upon  receipt  of  an  application  from  the listed  entity  along  with  all  relevant  documents  subject  to  compliance  with conditions specified in these regulations; Provided  that  in  case  of  entities  listed  on  more  than  one  stock  exchange,  the concerned stock exchanges shall jointly decide on the application.
(3) Re-classification of status of a promoter/ person belonging to promoter group to public  shall  be  permitted  by  the  stock  exchanges  only  upon  satisfaction  of  the following conditions: (a)  an application for re-classification to the stock exchanges has been made by the  listed  entity  consequent  to  the  following  procedures  and  not  later  than thirty days from the date of approval by shareholders in general meeting: (i) (ii) the promoter(s) seeking re-classification shall make a request for re- classification  to  the  listed  entity  which  shall  include  rationale  for seeking  such  re-classification  and  how  the  conditions  specified  in clause (b) below are satisfied; the  board  of  directors  of  the  listed  entity  shall  analyze  the  request and place the same before the shareholders in a general meeting for approval  along  with  the  views  of  the  board  of  directors  on  the request: (iii) Provided  that  there  shall  be  a  time  gap  of  at  least  three  months  but not exceeding six months between the date of board meeting and the shareholder’s  meeting  considering  the  request  of  the  promoter(s) seeking re-classification. the  request  of  the  promoter(s)  seeking  re-classification  shall  be approved in the general meeting by an ordinary resolution in which the  promoter(s)  seeking  re-classification  and  persons  related  to  the promoter(s)  seeking  re-classification  shall  not  vote  to  approve  such re-classification request. (b) the  promoter(s)  seeking  re-classification  and  persons  related  to  the promoter(s) seeking re-classification shall not: (i) together, hold more than ten percent of the total voting rights in the listed entity; (ii)  exercise  control  over  the  affairs  of  the  listed  entity  directly  or indirectly; the existing promoter and promoter group seeking re-classification shall not remain in control of the listed entity; and (i) (ii)  such  re-classification  along  with  the  underlying  rationale  shall  be  disclosed  to  the  stock exchanges within one day of the resolution plan being approved. 34 (iii)  have  any  special  rights  with  respect  to  the  listed  entity  through formal or informal arrangements including through any shareholder agreements; (iv)  be  represented  on  the  board  of  directors  (including  not  having  a nominee director) of the listed entity; (v)  act as a key managerial person in the listed entity; (vi)  be a ‘wilful defaulter’ as per the Reserve Bank of India Guidelines; (vii)  be a fugitive economic offender. (c)  the listed entity shall: (i)  be compliant with  the requirement for minimum  public  shareholding as required under regulation 38 of these regulations; (ii)  not have trading in its shares suspended by the stock exchanges; (iii)  not  have  any  outstanding  dues  to  the  Board,  the  stock  exchanges  or the depositories.
(4) The promoter(s) seeking re-classification, subsequent to re-classification as public, shall comply with the following conditions: (a) he shall continue to  comply with conditions mentioned at  sub-clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of clause (b) of sub-regulation 3 as specified above at all times from the date of such re-classification failing which, he shall automatically be  reclassified  as  promoter/  persons  belonging  to  promoter  group,  as applicable; (b) he shall  comply  with conditions  mentioned  at  sub-clauses  (iv) and (v) of clause (b) of sub-regulation 3 for a period of not less than three years from the  date  of  such  re-classification  failing  which,  he  shall  automatically  be reclassified  as  promoter/  persons  belonging  to  promoter  group,  as applicable.
(5) If any public shareholder seeks to re-classify itself as promoter, it shall be required to  make  an  open  offer  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Securities  and Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.
(6)  In  case  of  transmission,  succession,  inheritance  and  gift  of  shares  held  by  a promoter/ person belonging to the promoter group: (a)  immediately on such event, the recipient of such shares shall be classified as a promoter/ person belonging to the promoter group, as applicable. (b) subsequently, in case the recipient classified as a promoter/person belonging to the promoter group proposes to seek re-classification of status as public, it may do so subject to compliance with conditions specified in sub-regulation
(3) above. (c)  in case of death of a promoter/person belonging to the promoter group, such person  shall  automatically  cease  to  be  included  as  a  promoter/person belonging to the promoter group.
(7) A listed entity shall be considered as ‘listed entity with no promoters’ if due to re- classification or otherwise, the entity does not have any promoter; 35
(8) The following events shall deemed to be material events and shall be disclosed by the listed entity to the stock exchanges as soon as reasonably possible and not later than twenty four hours from the occurrence of the event: (a)  receipt  of  request  for  re-classification  by  the  listed  entity  from  the promoter(s) seeking re-classification; (b) minutes of the board meeting considering such request which would include the views of the board on the request; (c)  submission of application for re-classification of status as promoter/public by the listed entity to the stock exchanges; (d) decision of the stock exchanges on such application as communicated to the listed entity;
(9) The provisions of sub-regulations 3, 4 and clauses (a) and (b) of sub-regulation 8 of this regulation shall not apply, if re-classification of promoter(s)/ promoter group of the  listed  entity  is  as  per  the  resolution  plan  approved  under  section  31  of  the Insolvency  Code,  subject  to  the  condition  that  such  promoter(s)  seeking  re- classification shall not remain in control of the listed entity.] Statement of deviation(s) or variation(s).
32. (1) The listed entity shall submit  to the stock exchange the following statement(s) on a quarterly basis for public issue, rights issue, preferential issue etc. ,- (a)  indicating  deviations,  if  any,  in  the  use  of  proceeds  from  the  objects  stated  in  the offer  document  or  explanatory  statement  to  the  notice  for  the  general  meeting,  as applicable; (b) indicating  category  wise  variation  (capital  expenditure,  sales  and  marketing, working capital  etc.) between projected utilisation of funds made by it in its offer document  or  explanatory  statement  to  the  notice  for  the  general  meeting,  as applicable and the actual utilisation of funds.
(2) The  statement(s)  specified  in  sub-regulation  (1),  shall  be  continued  to  be  given  till  such time the issue proceeds  have been fully utilised or the purpose for which these  proceeds were raised has been achieved.
(3) The  statement(s)  specified  in  sub-regulation  (1),  shall  be  placed  before  the  audit committee for review and after such review, shall be submitted to the stock exchange(s).
(4) The listed entity shall furnish an explanation for the variation specified in sub-regulation
(1), in the directors’ report in the annual report.
(5) The  listed  entity  shall  prepare  an  annual  statement  of  funds  utilized  for  purposes  other than  those  stated  in  the  offer  document/prospectus/notice,  certified  by  the  statutory auditors of the listed entity, and place it before the audit committee till such time the full money raised through the issue has been fully utilized.
(6) Where  the  listed  entity  has  appointed  a  monitoring  agency  to  monitor  utilisation  of proceeds of a public or rights issue, the listed entity shall submit to the stock exchange(s) any comments or report received from the monitoring agency. 36
(7) Where  the  listed  entity  has  appointed  a  monitoring  agency  to  monitor  the  utilisation  of proceeds of a public or rights issue, the monitoring report of such agency shall be placed before the audit committee on an annual basis, promptly upon its receipt. the monitoring agency specified in regulation 16 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009. 66 [(7A)  Where  an  entity  has  raised  funds  through  preferential  allotment  or  qualified institutions placement, the listed entity shall disclose every year, the utilization of such funds during that year in its Annual Report until such funds are fully utilized.]
(8) For  the  purpose  of  this  regulation,  any  reference  to  “quarterly/quarter”  in  case  of  listed entity which have listed their specified securities on SME Exchange shall respectively be read as “half yearly/half year”. Financial results.
33. (1) While preparing financial results, the listed entity shall comply with the following: (a)  The  financial  results  shall  be  prepared  on  the  basis  of  accrual  accounting  policy and  shall  be  in  accordance  with  uniform  accounting  practices  adopted  for  all  the periods. (b) The  quarterly  and  year  to  date  results  shall  be  prepared  in  accordance  with  the recognition and measurement principles laid down in Accounting Standard 25 or Indian  Accounting  Standard  31  (AS  25/  Ind  AS  34  –  Interim  Financial Reporting),  as  applicable,  specified  in  Section  133  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013 read  with  relevant  rules  framed  thereunder  or  as  specified  by  the  Institute  of Chartered Accountants of India, whichever is applicable. (c)  The  standalone  financial  results  and  consolidated  financial  results  shall  be prepared as per Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India: Provided  that  in  addition  to  the  above,  the  listed  entity  may  also  submit  the financial results, as per the International Financial Reporting Standards notified by the International Accounting Standards Board. (d) The listed entity shall ensure that the limited review or audit reports submitted to the  stock  exchange(s)  on  a  quarterly  or  annual  basis  are  to  be  given  only  by  an auditor  who  has  subjected  himself  to  the  peer  review  process  of  Institute  of Chartered  Accountants  of  India  and  holds  a  valid  certificate  issued  by  the  Peer Review Board of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. (e)  The listed entity shall make the disclosures specified in Part A of Schedule IV.
(2) The approval and authentication of the financial results shall be done by listed entity in the following manner: (a)  The  quarterly  financial  results  submitted  shall  be  approved  by  the  board  of directors: Provided that while placing the financial results before the board of directors, the chief executive officer and chief  financial  officer of the listed entity shall certify that  the  financial  results  do  not  contain  any  false  or  misleading  statement  or figures  and  do  not  omit  any  material  fact  which  may  make  the  statements  or figures contained therein misleading. (b) The  financial  results  submitted  to  the  stock  exchange  shall  be  signed  by  the chairperson or managing director, or a whole time director or in the absence of all of  them;  it  shall  be  signed  by  any  other  director  of  the  listed  entity  who  is  duly authorized by the board of directors to sign the financial results. (c)  The  limited  review  report  shall  be  placed  before  the  board  of  directors,  at  its meeting which approves the financial results, before being submitted to the stock exchange(s). (d) The annual audited financial results shall be approved by the board of directors of the listed entity and shall  be signed in  the manner specified in  clause (b)  of sub- regulation (2).
(3) The listed entity shall submit the financial results in the following manner: (a)  The  listed  entity  shall  submit  quarterly  and  year-to-date  standalone  financial results to the stock exchange within forty-five days of end of each quarter, other than the last quarter. (b)   In  case the listed entity has subsidiaries, in  addition to  the requirement at  clause (a)  of  sub-regulation  (3),  the  listed  entity 67[shall]  also  submit  quarterly/year-to- date consolidated financial results 68[.] 69[***] (c)   The quarterly and year-to-date financial results may be either audited or unaudited subject to the following: (i)  In case the listed entity opts to submit unaudited financial results, they shall be subject to limited review by the statutory auditors of the listed entity and shall be accompanied by the limited review report. Provided  that  in  case  of  public  sector  undertakings  this  limited  review  may be undertaken by any practicing Chartered Accountant. (ii) In case the listed entity opts to submit audited financial results, they shall be accompanied by the audit report. (d)   The  listed  entity  shall  submit  [annual]70 audited  standalone  financial  results  for  the financial year, within sixty days from the end of the financial year along with the audit report and [Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications (applicable only]71 for audit report with modified opinion): Provided that if the listed entity has subsidiaries,  it shall, while submitting annual audited  standalone  financial  results  also  submit  annual  audited  consolidated financial  results  along  with  the  audit  report  and  [Statement  on  Impact  of  Audit Qualifications (applicable only]72 for audit report with modified opinion)[:]73 [Provided  further  that,  in  case  of  audit  reports  with  unmodified  opinion(s),  the listed entity shall furnish a declaration to that effect to the Stock Exchange(s) while publishing the annual audited financial results.]74 (e)   The  listed  entity  shall  also  submit  the  audited 75[or  limited  reviewed]  financial results  in  respect  of  the  last  quarter  along-with  the  results  for  the  entire  financial year,  with  a  note  stating  that  the  figures  of  last  quarter  are  the  balancing  figures between audited figures in respect of the full financial year and the published year- to-date figures upto the third quarter of the current financial year. (f)   The    listed  entity  shall    also    submit    as  part  of    its  standalone  or  consolidated financial  results  for  the half year, by way  of  a  note, a statement  of assets and liabilities as at the end of the half-year. 76[(g)  The  listed  entity  shall  also  submit  as  part  of  its  standalone  and  consolidated financial  results  for  the  half  year,  by  way  of  a  note,  statement  of  cash  flows  for  the half-year. (h)  The  listed  entity  shall  ensure  that,  for  the  purposes  of  quarterly  consolidated financial results, at least eighty percent of each of the consolidated revenue, assets and profits,  respectively,  shall  have  been  subject  to  audit  or  in  case  of  unaudited  results, subjected to limited review. (i)  The  listed  entity  shall  disclose,  in  the  results  for  the  last  quarter  in  the  financial year, by way of a note, the aggregate effect of material adjustments made in the results of that quarter which pertain to earlier periods.]
(4) The  applicable  formats  of  the  financial  results  and  [Statement  on  Impact  of  Audit Qualifications  (for  audit  report  with  modified  opinion)]77 shall  be  in  the  manner  as specified by the Board [***]78.
(5) For  the  purpose  of  this  regulation,  any  reference  to  “quarterly/quarter”  in  case  of  listed entity  which  has  listed  their  specified  securities  on  SME  Exchange  shall  be  respectively read  as  “half  yearly/half  year”  and  the  requirement  of  submitting  ‘year-to-date’  financial results shall not be applicable for a listed entity which has listed their specified securities on SME Exchange.
(6) The  [Statement  on  Impact  of  Audit  Qualifications  (for  audit  report  with  modified opinion)]79 and the accompanying annual audit report submitted in terms of clause (d) of sub-regulation (3)  shall be reviewed by the stock exchange(s) [***]80.
(7) [***]81
82[(8) The statutory auditor of a listed entity shall undertake a limited review of the audit of all the entities/ companies whose accounts are to be consolidated with the listed entity as per AS 21 in accordance with guidelines issued by the Board on this matter.] Annual Report.
34. 83[(1) The listed entity shall submit to the stock exchange and publish on its website- (a)   a  copy  of  the  annual  report  sent  to  the  shareholders  along  with  the  notice  of  the annual  general  meeting  not  later  than  the  day  of  commencement  of  dispatch  to  its shareholders; (b)  in  the  event  of  any  changes  to  the  annual  report,  the  revised  copy  along  with  the details  of  and  explanation  for  the  changes  shall  be  sent  not  later  than  48  hours  after  the annual general meeting.]
(2)  The annual report shall contain the following: (a)  audited financial statements i.e. balance sheets, profit and loss accounts etc [,and Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications as stipulated in regulation 33(3)(d), if applicable;]84 (b)  consolidated financial statements audited by its statutory auditors; (c)  cash  flow  statement  presented  only  under  the  indirect  method  as  prescribed  in Accounting Standard-3 or Indian Accounting Standard 7, as applicable, specified in  Section  133  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  read  with  relevant  rules  framed thereunder  or  as  specified  by  the  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of  India, whichever is applicable; (d)  directors report; (e)  management discussion and analysis report - either as a part of directors report or addition thereto; (f)  for  the  top  85 [one  thousand]  listed  entities  based  on  market  capitalization (calculated as on March 31 of every financial year), business responsibility report describing  the  initiatives  taken  by  them  from  an  environmental,  social  and governance  perspective,  in  the  format  as  specified  by  the  Board  from  time  to time: Provided  that  listed  entities  other  than  top  86 [one  thousand]  listed  companies based on market capitalization and listed entities which have listed their specified securities on SME Exchange, may include these business responsibility reports on a voluntary basis in the format as specified.
(3)  The  annual  report  shall  contain  any  other  disclosures  specified  in  Companies  Act,  2013 along with other requirements as specified in Schedule V of these regulations. Annual Information Memorandum.
35.  The  listed  entity  shall  submit  to  the  stock  exchange(s)  an  Annual  Information Memorandum in the manner specified by the Board from time to time. Documents & Information to shareholders.
36. (1)  The  listed  entity  shall  send  the  annual  report  in  the  following  manner  to  the shareholders: (a)  Soft  copies  of  full  annual  report  to  all  those  shareholder(s)  who  have  registered their  email  address(es)  87 [***]  88 [either  with  the  listed  entity  or  with  any depository]; (b) Hard  copy  of  statement  containing  the  salient  features  of  all  the  documents,  as prescribed  in  Section  136  of  Companies  Act,  2013  or  rules  made  thereunder  to those shareholder(s) who have not so registered; (c)  Hard copies of full annual reports to those shareholders, who request for the same.
(2) The listed entity shall send annual report referred to in sub-regulation (1), to the holders of securities, not less than twenty-one days before the annual general meeting.
(3) In  case  of  the  appointment  of  a  new  director  or  re-appointment  of  a  director  the shareholders must be provided with the following information: (a)  a brief resume of the director; (b)  nature of his expertise in specific functional areas; (c)  disclosure of relationships between directors inter-se; (d)  names  of  listed  entities  in  which  the  person  also  holds  the  directorship  and  the membership of Committees of the board; and (e)  shareholding of non-executive directors. 89 [(4)  The  disclosures  made  by  the  listed  entity  with  immediate  effect  from  date  of notification of these amendments- (a)  to  the  stock  exchanges  shall  be  in  XBRL  format  in  accordance  with  the  guidelines specified by the stock exchanges from time to time; and (b)  to  the  stock  exchanges  and  on  its  website,  shall  be  in  a  format  that  allows  users  to  find relevant information easily through a searching tool: Provided  that  the  requirement  to  make  disclosures  in  searchable  formats  shall  not  apply  in case there is  a statutory  requirement to  make such disclosures in  formats  which may not  be searchable, such as copies of scanned documents.
(5) The notice being sent to shareholders for an annual general meeting, where the statutory auditor(s) is/are proposed to be appointed/re-appointed shall include the following disclosures as a part of the explanatory statement to the notice: Proposed  fees  payable  to  the  statutory  auditor(s)  along  with  terms  of appointment  and  in  case  of  a  new  auditor,  any  material  change  in  the  fee payable to  such auditor from  that  paid  to the outgoing auditor along with  the rationale for such change; (a) (b) Basis  of  recommendation  for  appointment  including  the  details  in  relation  to and credentials of the statutory auditor(s) proposed to be appointed.] Draft Scheme of Arrangement & Scheme of Arrangement.
37. (1)Without  prejudice  to  provisions  of    regulation  11,  the  listed  entity  desirous  of undertaking  a  scheme  of  arrangement  or  involved  in  a    scheme  of  arrangement,  shall file the draft scheme of arrangement, proposed to be filed before any Court or Tribunal under  sections  391-394  and  101  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  or  under  Sections  230- 234  and  Section  66  of  Companies  Act,  2013,  whichever  applicable, 90[along  with  a non-refundable  fee  as  specified  in  Schedule  XI,]  with  the  stock  exchange(s)  for obtaining  Observation  Letter  or  No-objection  letter,  before  filing  such  scheme  with any  Court  or  Tribunal,  in  terms  of  requirements  specified  by  the  Board  or  stock exchange(s) from time to time.
(2) The listed entity shall not file any scheme of arrangement under sections 391-394 and 101  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  or  under  Sections  230-234  and  Section  66  of Companies Act, 2013 ,whichever applicable, with any Court or Tribunal unless it has obtained observation letter or No-objection letter from the stock exchange(s).
(3) The listed entity shall place the Observation letter or No-objection letter of the stock exchange(s)  before  the  Court  or  Tribunal  at  the  time  of  seeking  approval  of  the scheme of arrangement: Provided  that  the  validity  of  the  ‘Observation  Letter’  or  No-objection  letter  of  stock exchanges  shall  be  six  months  from  the  date  of  issuance,  within  which  the  draft scheme of arrangement shall be submitted to the Court or Tribunal. (4)The  listed  entity  shall  ensure  compliance  with  the  other  requirements  as  may  be prescribed by the Board from time to time.
(5) Upon sanction of the Scheme by the Court or Tribunal, the listed entity shall submit the  documents,  to  the  stock  exchange(s),  as  prescribed  by  the  Board  and/or  stock exchange(s) from time to time.
91[(6) Nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to draft schemes which solely provide for merger of a wholly owned subsidiary with its holding company: Provided  that  such  draft  schemes  shall  be  filed  with  the  stock  exchanges  for  the purpose of disclosures.]
[(7)  The  requirements  as  specified  under  this  regulation  and  under  regulation  94  of these  regulations  shall  not  apply  to  a  restructuring  proposal  approved  as  part  of  a resolution plan by the Tribunal under section 31 of the Insolvency Code, subject to the details  being  disclosed  to  the  recognized  stock  exchanges  within  one  day  of  the resolution plan being approved.]92 Minimum Public Shareholding.
38.  The  listed  entity  shall  comply  with  the  minimum  public  shareholding  requirements specified  in  Rule  19(2)  and  Rule  19A  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules, 1957 in the manner as specified by the Board from time to time: Provided  that  provisions  of  this  regulation  shall  not  apply  to  entities  listed  on institutional trading platform without making a public issue. Issuance  of  Certificates  or  Receipts/Letters/Advices  for  securities  and  dealing  with unclaimed securities.
39. (1) The listed entity shall comply with Rule 19(3) of Securities Contract (Regulations) Rules, 1957 in respect of Letter/Advices of Allotment, Acceptance or Rights, transfers, subdivision,  consolidation,  renewal,  exchanges,  issuance  of  duplicates  thereof  or  any other purpose.
(2) The listed entity shall issue certificates or receipts or advices, as applicable, of subdivision, split,  consolidation,  renewal,  exchanges, endorsements, issuance of duplicates thereof  or issuance  of  new  certificates  or  receipts  or  advices,  as  applicable,  in  cases  of  loss  or  old decrepit  or  worn  out  certificates  or  receipts  or  advices,  as  applicable  within  a  period  of thirty  days from the date of such lodgement.
(3) The listed entity shall submit information regarding loss of share certificates and issue of the duplicate certificates, to the stock exchange within two days of its getting information.
(4) The listed entity shall comply with  the procedural  requirements specified in  Schedule VI while  dealing  with  securities  issued  pursuant  to  the  public  issue  or  any  other  issue, physical or otherwise, which remain unclaimed and/or are lying in the escrow account, as applicable. Transfer or transmission or transposition of securities.
40. (1)  Save  as  otherwise  specified  in  provisions  of  securities  laws  or  Companies  Act, 2013  and  rules  made  thereunder,  the  listed  entity  shall  also  comply  with  the requirements as specified in this regulation for effecting transfer of securities [:]93 [Provided that, except in case of transmission or transposition of securities, requests for effecting  transfer  of  securities  shall  not  be  processed  unless  the  securities  are  held  in the dematerialized form with a depository.]94
(2) The board of directors of a listed entity may delegate the power of transfer of securities to a  committee  or  to  compliance  officer  or  to  the  registrar  to  an  issue  and/or  share  transfer agent(s): Provided  that  the  board  of  directors  and/or  the  delegated  authority  shall  attend  to  the formalities pertaining to transfer of securities at least once in a fortnight: Provided  further  that  the  delegated  authority  shall  report  on  transfer  of  securities  to  the board of directors in each meeting.
(3) On receipt of proper documentation, the listed entity shall register transfers of its securities in the name of the transferee(s) and issue certificates or receipts or advices, as applicable, of transfers; or issue any valid objection or intimation to the transferee or transferor, as the case  may  be,  within  a  period  of  fifteen  days  from  the  date  of  such  receipt  of  request  for transfer: Provided  that  the  listed  entity  shall  ensure  that  transmission  requests  are  processed  for securities  held  in  dematerialized  mode  and  physical  mode  within  seven  days  and  twenty one days respectively, after receipt of the specified documents: Provided  further  that  proper  verifiable  dated  records  of  all  correspondence  with  the investor shall be maintained by the listed entity.
(4) The  listed  entity  shall  not  register  transfer  when  any  statutory  prohibition  or  any attachment  or  prohibitory  order  of  a  competent  authority  restrains  it  from  transferring the securities  f r o m   the name of  the transferor(s).
(5) The  listed  entity  shall  not  register  the  transfer  of  its  securities  in  the  name  of  the transferee(s) when  the  transferor(s)  objects  to  the  transfer: Provided that the transferor serves on the listed entity, within sixty working days of raising the objection, a prohibitory order of a Court of competent jurisdiction.
(6) The listed entity shall not decline to, register or acknowledge any transfer of shares, on the ground of the transferor(s) being either alone or jointly with any other person or  persons indebted to the listed entity on any account whatsoever.
(7) The  listed  entity  shall  comply  with  all  procedural  requirements  as  specified  in  Schedule VII with respect to transfer of securities.
(8) In case the listed entity has not effected transfer of securities within fifteen days or where the  listed entity has  failed  to communicate to the transferee(s)  any valid objection  to the transfer,  within  the  stipulated  time  period  of  fifteen  days,  the  listed  entity  shall compensate the aggrieved party for the opportunity losses caused during the period of the delay: Provided that during the intervening period on account of delay in transfer above, the listed entity shall provide all benefits, which have accrued, to the holder of securities  in terms of provisions  of  Section  126  of  Companies  Act,  2013,  and  Section  27  of  the  Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956: Provided further that in case of any claim, difference or dispute under this sub-regulation the same shall be referred to and decided by arbitration as provided in the bye-laws and/or regulations of the stock exchange(s).
(9)  The  listed  entity  shall  ensure  that  the  share  transfer  agent  and/or  the  in-house  share transfer  facility,  as  the  case  may  be,  produces  a  certificate  from  a  practicing  company secretary within one month of the end of each half of the financial year, certifying that all certificates have been issued within thirty days of the date of lodgement for transfer, sub- division, consolidation, renewal, exchange or endorsement of calls/allotment monies.
(10)  The  listed  entity  shall  ensure  that  certificate  mentioned  at  sub-regulation  (9),  shall  be filed with the stock exchange(s) simultaneously.
(11) In  addition  to  transfer  of  securities,  the  provisions  of  this  regulation  shall  also  apply  to the following : (a) deletion  of  name  of  the  deceased  holder(s)  of  securities,  where  the  securities    are held in the name of two or more holders of securities ; (b) transmission  of  securities  to  the  legal  heir(s),  where  deceased  holder  of  securities was the sole holder of securities; (c) transposition  of  securities,  when  there  is  a  change  in  the  order  of  names  in  which physical securities are held jointly in the names of two or more holders of securities. 45 Other provisions relating to securities.
41. (1) The listed entity shall not exercise a lien on its fully paid shares and that in respect of partly paid shares it shall not exercise any lien except in respect of moneys called or payable at a fixed time in respect of such shares.
(2) The listed entity shall, in case of any amount to be paid in advance of calls on any shares stipulate that such amount may carry interest but shall not in respect thereof confer a right to dividend or to participate in profits.
95[(3)  The  listed  entity  shall  not  issue  shares  in  any  manner  that  may  confer  on  any  person; superior  or  inferior  rights  as  to  dividend  vis-à-vis  the  rights  on  equity  shares  that  are already listed or inferior voting rights vis-à-vis the rights on equity shares that are already listed: Provided  that,  a  listed  entity  having  SR  equity  shares  issued  to  its  promoters/  founders, may  issue  SR  equity  shares  to  its  SR  shareholders  only  through  a  bonus,  split  or  rights issue  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 and the Companies Act,
2013.] (4) The  listed  entity  shall,  issue  or  offer  in  the  first  instance  all  shares    (including  forfeited shares), securities, rights, privileges and benefits to subscribe  pro rata basis , to the equity shareholders  of  the  listed  entity,  unless  the  shareholders  in  the  general  meeting  decide otherwise.
(5) Unless  the  terms  of  issue  otherwise  provide,  the  listed  entity  shall  not  select  any  of  its listed securities for redemption otherwise than on pro-rata basis or by lot. 96[Other provisions relating to outstanding SR equity shares. 41A (1) The SR equity shares shall be treated at par with the ordinary equity shares in every respect, including dividends, except in the case of voting on resolutions.
(2) The total voting rights of SR shareholders (including ordinary shares) in the issuer upon listing, pursuant to an initial public offer, shall not at any point of time exceed seventy four per cent.
(3) The SR equity shares shall be treated as ordinary equity shares in terms of voting rights (i.e. one SR share shall only have one vote) in the following circumstances - i. ii. iii. iv. v. vi. appointment or removal of independent directors and/or auditor; where a promoter is willingly transferring control to another entity; related  party  transactions  in  terms  of  these  regulations  involving  an  SR shareholder; voluntary winding up of the listed entity; changes to the Articles of Association or Memorandum of Association of the listed entity,  except any change affecting the SR equity share; initiation of a voluntary resolution process under the Insolvency Code; utilization of funds for purposes other than business; substantial value transaction based on materiality threshold as specified under these regulations; passing of special resolution in respect of delisting or buy-back of shares; and other circumstances or subject matter as may be specified by the Board, from time to time. vii. viii. ix. x.
(4) The SR equity shares shall be converted into equity shares having voting rights same as that of ordinary shares on the fifth anniversary of listing of ordinary shares of the listed entity: Provided  that  the  SR  equity  shares  may  be  valid  for  upto  an  additional  five  years,  after  a resolution to that effect has been passed, where the SR shareholders have not been permitted to vote: Provided  further  that  the  SR  shareholders  may  convert  their  SR  equity  shares  into  ordinary equity shares at any time prior to the period as specified in this sub-regulation.
(5)  The  SR  equity  shares  shall  be  compulsorily  converted  into  equity  shares  having  voting rights same as that of ordinary shares on the occurrence of any of the following events - i. ii. iii. iv. demise of the promoter(s) or founder holding such shares; an SR shareholder resigns from the executive position in the listed entity; merger  or  acquisition  of  the  listed  entity  having  SR  shareholder/s,  where  the control would no longer remain with the SR shareholder/s; the SR equity shares are sold by an SR shareholder who continues to hold such shares  after  the  lock-in  period  but  prior  to  the  lapse  of  validity  of  such  SR equity shares.] Record Date or Date of closure of transfer books.
42. (1)  The listed entity shall intimate the record date 97[for the following events to all the stock  exchange(s)  where  it  is  listed  or  where  stock  derivatives  are  available  on  the stock of the listed entity or where listed entity’s stock form part of an index on which derivatives are available:] (a) declaration of dividend; (b) issue of right or bonus shares; (c) issue of shares for conversion of debentures or any other convertible security; (d) shares arising out of rights attached to debentures or any other convertible security (e) 98[corporate actions like mergers, de-mergers, splits, etc;] (f) such other purposes as may be specified by the stock exchange(s).
(2) The listed entity shall give notice in advance of atleast seven working days (excluding the date  of  intimation  and  the  record  date)  to  stock  exchange(s)  of  record  date  specifying the purpose of the record date: 99[Provided that in the case of rights issues, the listed entity shall give notice in advance of atleast three working days (excluding the date of intimation and the record date).]
(3) The listed entity shall recommend or declare all dividend and/or cash bonuses at least five working  days  (excluding  the  date  of  intimation  and  the  record  date) before the record date fixed for the purpose.
(4) The listed entity shall ensure the time gap of at least thirty days between two record dates.
(5) For securities held in physical form, the listed entity may, announce dates of closure of its transfer books in place of record date for complying with requirements as specified in sub- regulations (1) to (4): Provided  that  the  listed  entity  shall  ensure  that  there  is  a  time  gap  of  atleast  thirty  days between two dates of closure of its transfer books. Dividends.
43. (1) The listed entity shall declare and disclose the dividend on per share basis only.
(2) The listed entity shall not forfeit unclaimed dividends before the claim becomes barred by law and such forfeiture, if effected, shall be annulled in appropriate cases. 100[Dividend Distribution Policy. 43A  (1) The top five hundred listed entities based on market capitalization (calculated as on March 31 of every financial  year) shall formulate a dividend distribution policy which shall be disclosed in their annual reports and on their websites.
(2) The dividend distribution policy shall include the following parameters: (a)  the circumstances under which the shareholders of the listed entities may or may not expect dividend; (b) the financial parameters that shall be considered while declaring dividend; (c)  internal and external factors that shall be considered for declaration of dividend; (d) policy as to how the retained earnings shall be utilized; and (e)  parameters that shall be adopted with regard to various classes of shares: Provided  that  if  the  listed  entity  proposes  to  declare  dividend  on  the  basis  of  parameters  in addition to clauses (a) to (e) or proposes to change such additional parameters or the dividend distribution  policy  contained  in  any  of  the  parameters,  it  shall  disclose  such  changes  along with the rationale for the same in its annual report and on its website.
(3) The listed entities other than top five hundred listed entities based on market capitalization may disclose their dividend distribution policies on a voluntary basis in  their annual  reports and on their websites.] 101[Meetings of shareholders and voting].
44. (1)  The  listed  entity  shall  provide  the  facility  of  remote  e-voting  facility  to  its shareholders, in respect of all shareholders' resolutions.
(2) The  e-voting  facility  to  be  provided  to  shareholders  in  terms  of  sub-regulation  (1),  shall  be provided in compliance with the conditions specified under the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, or amendments made thereto.
(3) The listed entity shall submit to the stock exchange, within forty eight hours of conclusion of its General Meeting, details regarding the voting results in the format specified by the Board.
(4) The listed entity shall send proxy forms to holders of securities in all cases mentioning that a holder may vote either for or against each resolution.
102[(5)  The  top  100  listed  entities  by  market  capitalization,  determined  as  on  March  31st  of every financial year, shall hold their annual general meetings within a period of five months from the date of closing of the financial year.
(6) The top  100 listed entities shall provide one-way live webcast  of the  proceedings of the annual general meetings. at the end of the immediate previous financial year.] Change in name of the listed entity.
45. (1)  The  listed  entity  shall  be  allowed  to  change  its  name  subject  to  compliance  with the following conditions: (a) a time period of at least one  year has elapsed from the last name change; (b) at least fifty percent. of the total revenue in the preceding one year period has been accounted   for by the new activity suggested by the new name; or (c) the amount invested in the new activity/project is atleast fifty percent. of the assets of the listed entity: Provided that if any listed entity has changed its activities which are not reflected in its name, it  shall  change  its  name  in  line  with  its  activities  within  a  period  of  six  months  from  the change of activities in compliance of provisions as applicable to change of name prescribed under Companies Act, 2013. (i)  'assets'  of  the  listed  entity  means  the  sum  of  fixed  assets,  advances,  works  in Progress / Inventories, investments,  trade receivables,  cash & cash equivalents; (ii)  ‘advances’  shall  include  only  those  amounts  extended  to  contractors  and suppliers  towards  execution  of  project,  specific  to  new  activity  as  reflected  in  the new name.
(2) On satisfaction of conditions at sub-regulation (1), the listed entity shall file an application for name availability with Registrar of Companies.
(3) On receipt of confirmation regarding name availability from Registrar of Companies, before filing the request for change of name with the Registrar of Companies in terms of provisions laid  down  in  Companies  Act,  2013  and  rules  made  thereunder,  the  listed  entity  shall  seek 102 Inserted ibid. 49 approval  from Stock  Exchange by  submitting a  certificate  from chartered  accountant stating compliance with conditions at sub-regulation (1). Website.
46. (1)  The  listed  entity  shall  maintain  a  functional  website  containing  the  basic information about the listed entity.
(2) The listed entity shall disseminate the following information 103[under a separate section on its website]: (a) details of its business; (b) terms and conditions of appointment of independent directors; (c) composition of various committees of board of directors; (d) code of conduct of board of directors and senior management personnel; (e) details of establishment of vigil mechanism/ Whistle Blower policy; (f) criteria of making payments  to  non-executive directors  , if the same has  not  been disclosed in annual report; (g) policy on dealing with related party transactions; (h) policy for determining ‘material’ subsidiaries; (i) details  of familiarization programmes imparted to independent  directors including the following details:- (i) number of programmes attended by independent directors (during the year and on a cumulative basis till date), (ii) number  of  hours  spent  by  independent  directors  in  such  programmes  (during the year and on cumulative basis till date), and (iii) other relevant details (j) the email address for grievance redressal and other relevant details; (k) contact  information  of  the  designated  officials  of  the  listed  entity  who  are responsible for assisting and handling investor grievances; (l) financial information including: (i) notice  of  meeting  of  the  board  of  directors  where  financial  results  shall  be discussed; (ii) financial results, on conclusion of the meeting of the board of directors where the financial results were approved; (iii) complete  copy  of  the  annual  report  including  balance  sheet,  profit  and  loss account, directors report, corporate governance report etc; shareholding  pattern; (m) (n) details  of  agreements  entered  into  with  the  media  companies  and/or  their associates, etc; (o) schedule  of  analyst  or  institutional  investor  meet  and  presentations  made  by  the listed entity to analysts or institutional investors simultaneously with submission to stock exchange; (p) new name and the old name of the listed entity for a continuous period of one year, from the date of the last name change; (q) items in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 47 . 104[(r) With effect from October 1, 2018, all credit ratings obtained by the entity for all its outstanding instruments, updated immediately as and when there is any revision in any of the ratings. (s)  separate  audited  financial  statements  of  each  subsidiary  of  the  listed  entity  in respect of a relevant financial year, uploaded at least 21 days prior to the date of the annual  general  meeting  which  has  been  called  to  inter  alia  consider  accounts  of  that financial year.]
(3)      (a) The listed entity shall ensure that the contents of the website are correct. (b)  The listed entity shall update any change in the content of its website  within two working days from the date of such change in content. Advertisements in Newspapers.
47. (1) The listed entity shall publish the following information in the newspaper: (a) notice  of  meeting  of  the  board  of  directors  where  financial  results  shall  be discussed (b) financial results, as specified in  regulation  33,  along-with  the modified opinion(s) or reservation(s), if any, expressed by the auditor: Provided  that  if  the  listed  entity  has  submitted  both  standalone  and  consolidated financial results, the listed entity shall publish consolidated financial results along- with  (1)  Turnover,  (2)  Profit  before  tax  and  (3)  Profit  after  tax,  on  a  stand-alone basis,  as  a  foot  note;  and  a  reference  to  the  places,  such  as  the  website  of  listed entity  and  stock  exchange(s),  where  the  standalone  results  of  the  listed  entity  are available. (c) statements  of  deviation(s)  or  variation(s)    as  specified  in  sub-regulation  (1)  of regulation  32  on  quarterly  basis,  after  review  by  audit  committee  and  its explanation in directors report in annual report; (d)  notices given to shareholders by advertisement.
(2) The listed entity shall give a reference in the newspaper publication, in sub-regulation (1), to  link  of  the  website  of  listed  entity  and  stock  exchange(s),  where  further  details  are available.
(3) The  listed  entity  shall  publish  the  information  specified  in  sub-regulation  (1)  in  the newspaper simultaneously with the submission of the same to the stock exchange(s). Provided that financial results at clause (b) of sub-regulation (1), shall be published within 48 hours of conclusion of the meeting of board of  directors at which the financial results were approved.
(4) The information  at  sub-regulation (1) shall be published  in  at  least  one English language national daily newspaper circulating in the whole or substantially the whole of India and in one daily newspaper published in the language of the region, where the registered office of the listed entity is situated: Provided  that  the  requirements  of  this  regulation  shall  not  be  applicable  in  case  of  listed entities which have listed their specified securities on SME Exchange. Accounting Standards.
48. The  listed  entity  shall  comply  with  all  the  applicable  and  notified  Accounting Standards  from time to time. 52 OBLIGATIONS OF LISTED ENTITY WHICH HAS LISTED ITS NON- CONVERTIBLE DEBT SECURITIES OR NON-CONVERTIBLE REDEEMABLE PREFERENCE SHARES OR BOTH CHAPTER V Applicability.
49. (1) The provisions of this chapter shall apply only to a listed entity which has listed its ‘Non-convertible  Debt  Securities’  and/or  ‘Non-Convertible  Redeemable  Preference Shares’  on  a  recognised  stock  exchange  in  accordance  with  Securities  and  Exchange Board  of  India  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Debt  Securities)  Regulations,  2008  or  Securities and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Non-Convertible  Redeemable Preference Shares) Regulations, 2013 respectively.
(2) The provisions of this chapter shall also be applicable to “perpetual debt instrument” and "perpetual non-cumulative preference share” listed by banks. Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. convertible redeemable preference shares: (i) The reference to “interest” may also read as dividend; (ii) The provisions concerning debenture trustees and security creation (or asset cover or  charge  on  assets)  shall  not  be  applicable  for  “non-convertible  redeemable preference shares” Intimation to stock exchange(s).
50. (1) The listed entity shall give prior intimation to the stock exchange(s) at least  eleven working days before  the date on and from which the interest on debentures and bonds, and  redemption  amount  of  redeemable  shares  or  of  debentures  and  bonds  shall    be payable.
(2) The listed entity shall intimate the stock exchange(s), its intention to raise funds through new  non-convertible  debt  securities  or  non-convertible  redeemable  preference  shares  it proposes  to  list  either  through  a  public  issue  or  on  private  placement  basis,  prior  to issuance of  such securities: Provided that the above intimation may be given prior to the meeting of board of directors wherein  the proposal to raise  funds  through new non  convertible  debt  securities  or  non- convertible redeemable preference shares shall be considered.
(3) The  listed  entity  shall  intimate  to  the  stock  exchange(s),  at  least  two  working  days  in advance,  excluding  the  date  of  the  intimation  and  date  of  the  meeting,  regarding  the meeting of its board of directors, at which the recommendation or declaration of issue of non  convertible  debt  securities  or  any  other  matter  affecting  the  rights  or  interests  of holders of non convertible debt securities or non convertible redeemable preference shares is proposed to be considered. 53 Disclosure  of  information  having  bearing  on  performance/operation  of  listed  entity and/or price sensitive information.
51. (1)  The  listed  entity  shall  promptly  inform  the  stock  exchange(s)  of  all  information having  bearing  on  the  performance/operation  of  the  listed  entity,  price  sensitive information  or  any  action  that  shall  affect  payment  of  interest  or  dividend  of  non- convertible  preference  shares  or  redemption  of  non  convertible  debt  securities  or redeemable preference shares. informed as soon as practically possible and without any delay and that the information shall be given first to the stock exchange(s) before providing the same to any third party.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation(1), the listed entity who has issued or is issuing non-convertible debt securities and/or non-convertible redeemable preference shares shall make disclosures as specified in Part B of Schedule III. Financial Results.
52. (1)The listed entity shall prepare and submit un-audited or audited financial results on a half yearly basis in the format as specified by the Board within forty five days from the end of the half year to the recognised stock exchange(s). 105[Provided that in case of entities which have listed their equity shares and debt securities, a copy  of  the  financial  results  submitted  to  stock  exchanges  shall  be  provided  to  Debenture Trustees on the same day the information is submitted to stock exchanges.]
(2)  The  listed  entity  shall  comply  with  following  requirements  with  respect  to  preparation, approval, authentication and publication of annual and half-yearly financial results: (a) Un-audited  financial  results  shall  be  accompanied  by  limited  review  report prepared  by  the  statutory  auditors  of  the  listed  entity  or  in  case  of  public  sector undertakings, by any practising Chartered Accountant, in the format as specified by the Board: Provided that if the listed entity intimates in advance to the stock exchange(s) that it shall submit to the stock exchange(s) its annual audited results within sixty days from the end of the financial year, un-audited financial results for the last half year accompanied  by  limited  review  report  by  the  auditors  need  not  be  submitted  to stock exchange(s). (b) Half-yearly results shall be taken on record by the board of directors and signed by the managing director / executive director. (c) The  audited  results  for  the  year  shall  be  submitted  to  the  recognised  stock exchange(s) in the same format as is applicable for half-yearly financial results. (d) If the listed entity opts to submit un-audited financial results for the last half  year accompanied by limited review report by the auditors, it shall  also submit audited financial  results  for  the  entire  financial  year,  as  soon  as  they  are  approved  by  the board of directors. (e) Modified  opinion(s)  in  audit  reports  that  have  a  bearing  on  the  interest  payment/ dividend payment pertaining to non-convertible redeemable debentures/ redemption or  principal  repayment  capacity  of  the  listed  entity  shall  be  appropriately  and adequately addressed by the board of directors while publishing the accounts for the said period.
(3)  (a)  The  annual  audited  financial  results  shall  be  submitted  along  with  the  annual  audit report  and  [Statement  on  Impact  of  Audit  Qualifications  (applicable  only]106 for  audit report with modified opinion[)]107[;]108 [Provided  that,  in  case  of  audit  reports  with  unmodified  opinion,  the  listed  entity  shall furnish a declaration to that effect to the Stock Exchange(s) while publishing the annual audited financial results.]109 (b) The  [Statement  on  Impact  of  Audit  Qualifications  (for  audit  report  with  modified opinion]110 and the accompanying annual audit report submitted in terms of clause (a) shall be reviewed by the stock exchange(s) [***]111. (c) [***]112 (d) The applicable [format]113 of [Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications (for audit report with modified opinion)]114 shall be [in the manner as]115 specified by the Board [***]116.
(4) The listed entity, while submitting half yearly / annual financial results, shall disclose the following line items along with the financial results: (a)  credit rating and change in credit rating (if any); (b) asset cover available, in case of non convertible debt securities; (c)  debt-equity ratio; (d) previous  due  date  for  the  payment  of  interest/  dividend  for  non-convertible redeemable  preference  shares/  repayment  of  principal  of  non-convertible preference shares /non convertible debt securities and whether the same has been paid or not; and, (e)  next due date for the payment of interest/ dividend of non-convertible preference shares  /principal  along  with  the  amount  of  interest/  dividend  of  non-convertible preference shares payable and the redemption amount; (f)  debt service coverage ratio; (g) interest service coverage ratio; (h) outstanding redeemable preference shares (quantity and value); (i)  capital redemption reserve/debenture redemption reserve; (j)  net worth; (k) net profit after tax; (l)  earnings per share: Provided that the requirement of disclosures of debt service coverage ratio, asset cover and interest  service  coverage  ratio  shall  not  be  applicable  for  banks  or  non  banking  financial companies registered with the Reserve Bank of India. Provided further that the requirement of this sub- regulation shall not be applicable in case of  unsecured  debt  instruments  issued  by  regulated  financial  sector  entities  eligible  for meeting capital requirements as specified by respective regulators.
117[(5)  The  listed  entity  shall,  within  seven  working  days  from  the  date  of  submission  of  the information required under sub- regulation (4),   submit to stock exchange(s), a certificate signed by debenture trustee that it has taken note of the contents.]
(6)  The  listed  entity  which  has  listed  its  non  convertible  redeemable  preference  shares  shall make the following additional disclosures as notes to financials: (a) profit for the half year and cumulative profit for the year; (b) free reserve as on the end of half year; (c) securities premium account balance (if redemption of redeemable preference share is  to  be  done  at  a  premium,  such  premium  may    be  appropriated  from  securities premium account): Provided  that  disclosure  on  securities  premium  account  balance  may  be  provided only in the year in which non convertible redeemable preference shares are due for redemption; (d) track record of dividend payment on non convertible redeemable preference shares: Provided that in case the dividend has been deferred at any time, then the actual date of payment shall be disclosed; (e)  breach  of  any  covenants  under  the  terms  of  the  non  convertible  redeemable preference shares: Provided that in case a listed entity is planning a fresh issuance of shares whose end use  is  servicing  of  the  non  convertible  redeemable  preference  shares  (whether dividend  or  principle  redemption),  then  the  same  shall  be  disclosed  whenever  the listed entity decided on such issuances.
(7) The listed entity shall submit to the stock exchange on a half yearly basis along with the half yearly financial results, a statement indicating material deviations, if any, in the use of proceeds  of  issue  of  non  convertible  debt  securities  and  non-convertible  redeemable preference shares from the objects stated in the offer document.
(8)  The  listed  entity  shall,  within  two  calendar  days  of  the  conclusion  of  the  meeting  of  the board of directors, publish the financial results and statement referred to in sub-regulation
(4), in at least one English national daily newspaper circulating in the whole or substantially the whole of India. Annual Report.
53. The  annual  report  of  the  listed  entity  shall  contain  disclosures  as  specified  in Companies Act, 2013 along with the following: (a) audited financial statements i.e. balance sheets, profit and loss accounts etc [, and Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications as stipulated in regulation 52(3)(a), if applicable;]118 (b) cash  flow  statement  presented  only  under  the  indirect  method  as  prescribed  in Accounting  Standard-3/  Indian  Accounting  Standard  7,  mandated  under  Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with relevant rules framed thereunder or by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, whichever is applicable; (c) auditors report; (d) directors report; (e) name of the debenture trustees with full contact details ; (f)  related party disclosures as specified in Para  A of Schedule V. Asset Cover.
54. 119[(1)  In  respect  of  its  listed  non-convertible  debt  securities,  the  listed  entity  shall maintain  hundred  per  cent.  asset  cover  or  asset  cover  as  per  the  terms  of  offer document/Information  Memorandum  and/or  Debenture  Trust  Deed,  sufficient  to discharge  the  principal  amount  at  all  times  for  the  non-convertible  debt  securities issued.]
(2) The listed entity shall disclose to the stock exchange in quarterly, half-yearly, year- to-date and annual financial statements, as applicable, the extent and nature of security created  and  maintained  with  respect  to  its  secured  listed  non-convertible  debt securities. 120[***] Credit Rating.
55.  Each rating obtained by the listed entity with respect to non-convertible debt securities shall be reviewed at least once a year by a credit rating agency registered by the Board. Documents and Intimation to Debenture Trustees.
56. (1) The listed entity shall forward the following to the debenture trustee promptly: (a)  a  copy  of the  annual  report  at  the same time as  it is  issued  along  with    a  copy  of certificate  from  the  listed  entity's  auditors  in  respect  of  utilisation of  funds  during the implementation period of the project for which the funds have been raised: Provided  that  in  the  case  of  debentures  or  preference  shares  issued  for  financing working  capital  or  general  corporate  purposes  or  for  capital  raising  purposes  the copy of the auditor's certificate may be submitted at the end of each financial year till  the  funds  have  been  fully  utilised  or  the  purpose  for  which  these  funds  were intended has been achieved. (b)  a copy of all notices, resolutions and circulars relating to- (i) new issue of non convertible debt securities at the same time as they are sent to shareholders/ holders of non convertible debt securities; (ii)  the meetings of holders of non-convertible debt securities at the same time as they are sent to the holders of non convertible debt securities or advertised in the media including  those relating to proceedings of the meetings; (c)  intimations regarding : (i)  any revision in the rating; (ii)  any default in timely payment of interest or redemption or both in respect of the non convertible debt securities; (iii) failure to create charge on the assets; 121[(iv) all covenants of the issue (including side letters, accelerated payment clause, etc.)] 122[(d) a half-yearly  certificate regarding  maintenance  of  hundred percent asset cover or  asset  cover  as  per  the  terms  of  offer  document/  Information    Memorandum and/or  Debenture  Trust  Deed, including compliance with  all the covenants,  in respect of listed non-convertible debt  securities,  by the statutory  auditor,  along with  the  half-yearly financial results: Provided   that   the   submission   of   half   yearly   certificate   is   not applicable where bonds are secured by a Government guarantee.]
(2)  The  listed  entity  shall  forward  to  the  debenture  trustee  any  such  information  sought  and provide access to relevant books of accounts as required by the debenture trustee.
(3) The listed entity may, subject to the consent of the debenture trustee, send the information stipulated in sub-regulation (1), in electronic form/fax. Other submissions to stock exchange(s).
57. (1) The listed entity shall submit a certificate to the stock exchange within two days of the  interest  or  principal  or  both  becoming  due  that  it  has  made  timely  payment  of interests or principal obligations or both in respect of the non convertible debt securities.
(2)  The  listed  entity  shall  provide  an  undertaking  to  the  stock  exchange(s)  on  annual  basis stating that all documents and intimations required to be submitted to Debenture Trustees in terms of Trust Deed and Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 have been complied with.
(3) The listed entity shall forward to the stock exchange any other information in the manner and format as specified by the Board from time to time. Documents  and  information  to  holders  of  non  -  convertible  debt  securities  and  non- convertible preference shares
58. (1) The listed entity shall send the following documents: (a) Soft  copies  of  full  annual  reports  to  all  the  holders  of  non  convertible  preference share who have registered their email address(es) for the purpose; (b)  Hard  copy  of  statement  containing  the  salient  features  of  all  the  documents,  as specified  in  Section  136  of  Companies  Act,  2013  and  rules  made  thereunder  to those holders of non convertible preference share  who have not so registered; (c)  Hard  copies  of  full  annual  reports  to  those  holders  of  non  convertible  debt securities and non convertible preference share, who request for the same. (d)  Half yearly communication as specified in sub-regulation (4) and (5) of regulation 52,    to  holders  of  non  convertible  debt  securities  and  non  convertible  preference shares;
(2) The  listed  entity  shall  send  the  notice  of  all  meetings  of  holders  of  non  convertible  debt securities and holders of non-convertible redeemable preference shares specifically stating that  the  provisions  for  appointment  of  proxy  as  mentioned  in  Section  105  of  the Companies Act, 2013, shall be applicable for such meeting.
(3) The listed entity shall send proxy forms  to  holders of non convertible debt  securities and non-convertible redeemable preference shares which shall be worded in such a manner that holders of these securities may vote either for or against each resolution. Structure of non convertible debt securities and non convertible redeemable preference shares. 59
59. (1) The listed entity shall not make material modification without prior approval of the stock  exchange(s)  where  the  non  convertible  debt  securities  or  non-convertible redeemable preference shares, as applicable, are listed, to : (a) the  structure  of  the  debenture  in  terms  of  coupon,  conversion,  redemption,  or otherwise. (b) the  structure  of  the  non-convertible  redeemable  preference  shares  in  terms  of dividend  of  non-convertible  preference  shares  payable,  conversion,  redemption, or otherwise.
(2) The  approval  of the  stock exchange referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall be made only after: (a) approval  of  the  board  of  directors  and  the  debenture  trustee  in  case  of  non- convertible debt securities and (b) after complying with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 including approval of the consent of requisite majority of holders of that class of securities. Record Date
60. (1) The listed entity shall fix a record date for purposes of payment of interest, dividend and  payment  of  redemption  or  repayment  amount  or  for  such  other  purposes  as specified by the stock exchange.
(2) The listed entity shall  give notice in  advance  of  at least seven  working days  (excluding the date of intimation and the record date)  to the recognised stock exchange(s) of the record date or  of as many days as the stock exchange(s) may agree to or require specifying the purpose of the record date. Terms  of  non  convertible  debt  securities  and  non  convertible  redeemable  preference shares.
61. (1)  The  listed  entity  shall  ensure  timely  payment  of  interest  or  dividend  of  non- convertible redeemable preference shares or redemption payment: Provided  that  the  listed  entity  shall  not  declare  or  distribute  any  dividend  wherein  it  has defaulted  in  payment  of  interest  on  debt  securities  or  redemption  thereof  or  in  creation  of security as per the terms of the issue of debt securities: Provided  further  that  this  requirement  shall  not  be  applicable  in  case    of  unsecured  debt securities issued by regulated financial sector entities eligible for meeting capital requirements as specified by respective regulators.
(2)  The  listed  entity  shall  not  forfeit  unclaimed  interest/dividend  and  such  unclaimed interest/dividend shall be transferred to the ‘Investor Education and Protection Fund’ set up as per Section 125 of the Companies Act, 2013.
(3) Unless the terms of issue provide otherwise, the listed entity shall not select any of its listed securities for redemption otherwise than pro rata basis or by lot.
(4) The listed entity shall comply with requirements as specified in regulation 40 for transfer of securities including procedural requirements specified in Schedule VII. Website. 60
62. (1)  The  listed  entity  shall  maintain  a  functional  website  containing  the  following information about the listed entity:- (a) details of its business; (b) financial  information  including  complete  copy  of  the  annual  report  including balance sheet, profit and loss account, directors report etc; (c) contact  information  of  the  designated  officials  of  the  listed  entity  who  are responsible for assisting and handling investor grievances; email address for grievance redressal and other relevant details; (d) (e) name of the debenture trustees with full contact details; (f) the  information,  report,  notices,  call  letters,  circulars,  proceedings,  etc  concerning non-convertible redeemable preference shares or non convertible debt securities; (g) all  information  and  reports  including  compliance  reports  filed  by  the  listed entity; (h) information with respect to the following events: (i)  default by issuer to pay interest on or redemption amount; (ii)  failure to create a charge on the assets; (iii)  revision of rating assigned to the non convertible debt securities:
(2) The listed entity may also issue a press release with respect to the events specified in  sub- regulation (1).
(3)  The  listed  entity  shall  ensure  that  the  contents  of  the  website  are  correct  and  updated  at any given point of time. 61 OBLIGATIONS OF LISTED ENTITY WHICH HAS LISTED ITS SPECIFIED SECURITIES AND EITHER NON-CONVERTIBLE DEBT SECURITIES OR NON- CONVERTBLE REDEEMABLE PREFERENCE SHARES OR BOTH CHAPTER VI Applicability of Chapters IV and V.
63. (1)  Entity  which  has  listed  its  ‘specified  securities’  and  ‘non-convertible  debt securities’  or  ‘non-convertible  redeemable  preference  shares’  or  both  on  any recognised  stock  exchange,  shall  be  bound  by  the  provisions  in  Chapter  IV  of  these regulations.
(2)  The  listed  entity  described  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  additionally  comply  with  the following regulations in Chapter V: (a)  regulation  50(2),(3); (b)  regulation  51; (c)  regulation  52(3), (4), (5) and (6); (d)  regulation  53 (e)  regulation  54 (f)  regulation  55 (g)  regulation  56 (h)  regulation  57 (i)  regulation  58 (j)  regulation  59 (k)  regulation 60 (l)  regulation  61: Provided that the listed entity which has submitted any information to the stock exchange in compliance with the disclosure requirements under Chapter IV of these regulations, need not re-submit any such information under the provisions of this regulations without prejudice to any power conferred on the Board or the stock exchange or any other authority under any law to seek any such information from the listed entity: Provided  further  that  the  listed  entity,  which  has  satisfied  certain  obligations  in  compliance with other chapters, shall not separately satisfy the same conditions under this chapter. Delisting.
64. (1)  In  the  event  specified  securities  of  the  listed  entity  are  delisted  from  the  stock exchange, the listed entity  shall  comply with  all the provisions in  Chapter V of these regulations.
(2)  In  the  event  that  non-convertible  debt  securities  and  non-convertible  redeemable preference shares’ of the listed entity do not remain listed on the stock exchange, the listed entity shall comply with all the provisions in Chapter IV of these regulations. 62 OBLIGATIONS OF LISTED ENTITY WHICH HAS LISTED ITS INDIAN DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS CHAPTER VII Applicability.
65.  The  provisions  of  this  chapter  shall  apply  to  listed  entity  whose  securities  market regulators  are  signatories  to  the  Multilateral  Memorandum  of  Understanding  of International  Organization  of  Securities  Commission  issuing  ‘Indian  Depository Receipts’  as  defined  under  Rule  13  of  the  Companies  (Registration  of  Foreign Companies) Rules, 2014. Definitions.
66.  For the purpose of this chapter , unless the context otherwise requires - (a) “IDR Holder(s)” shall mean holder(s) of Indian Depository Receipts. (b) “Depository Agreement” shall mean an agreement between the listed entity and the domestic depository (c) “Home  Country”  or  “country  of  origin”  shall  mean  the  country  or  parent  country where the listed entity is incorporated and listed. (d) “Security  holder”  shall  mean  holder  of  the  security  or  equity  shares  of  the  listed entity in the home country. General Obligations of listed entity.
67. (1)  All  correspondences  filed  with  the  stock  exchange(s)  and  those  sent  to  the  IDR Holders shall be in English.
(2)  The listed entity shall comply, at all times, with the rules/regulations/laws of the country of origin.
(3)  The  listed  entity  shall  undertake  that  the  competent  Courts,  Tribunals  and  regulatory authorities in India shall have jurisdiction in the event of any dispute, either with the stock exchange or any investor, concerning the India Depository Receipts offered or subscribed or bought in India.
(4)  The  listed  entity  shall  forward,  on  a  continuous  basis,  any  information  requested  by  the stock exchange, in the interest of investors from time to time.
(5)  In case of any claim, difference or dispute under the provisions of this chapter and other provisions of these regulations applicable to the listed entity, the same shall be referred to and  decided  by  arbitration  as  provided  in  the  bye-laws  and  regulations  of  the  stock exchange(s). Disclosure of material events or  information.
68. (1) The listed entity shall promptly inform to the stock exchange(s) of all events which are  material,  all  information  which  is  price  sensitive  and/or  have  bearing  on performance/operation of the listed entity.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the listed entity shall make the disclosures as specified in Part C of Schedule III. 63 Indian Depository Receipt holding pattern & Shareholding details.
69. (1)  The  listed  entity  shall  file  with  the  stock  exchange  the  Indian  Depository  Receipt holding  pattern  on  a  quarterly  basis  within  fifteen  days  of  end  of  the  quarter  in  the format specified by the Board.
(2) The listed entity shall file the following details with the stock exchange as is required to be  filed  in  compliance  with  the  disclosure  requirements  of  the  listing  authority  or  stock exchange  in  its  home  country  or  any  other  jurisdiction  where  the  securities  of  the  listed entity are listed: (a) Shareholding Pattern; (b) Pre and post arrangement share holding pattern and Capital Structure in case of any corporate restructuring like mergers / amalgamations Periodical Financial Results.
70. (1)  The  listed  entity  shall  file  periodical  financial  results  with  the  stock  exchange  in such manner and within such time and to the extent that it is required to file as per the listing requirements of the home country.
(2)  The  listed  entity  shall  comply  with  the  requirements  with  respect  to  preparation  and disclosures in financial results as specified in Part B of Schedule IV. Annual Report.
71. (1) The listed entity shall submit to stock exchange an annual report at the same time as it is disclosed to the security holder in its home country or in other jurisdictions where such securities are listed.
(2) The annual report shall contain the following: (a) Report of board of directors; (b) Balance Sheet; (c) Profit and Loss Account; (d) Auditors Report; (e) All periodical and special reports( if applicable); (f) Any such other report which is required to be sent to security holders annually.
(3)  The  listed  entity  shall  comply  with  the  requirements  with  respect  to  preparation  and disclosures in financial results in annual report as specified in Part B of Schedule IV. Corporate Governance.
72. (1)  The  listed  entity  shall  comply  with  the  corporate  governance  provisions  as applicable  in  its  home  country  and  other  jurisdictions  in  which  its  equity  shares  are listed.
(2) The  listed  entity  shall  submit  to  stock  exchange  a  comparative  analysis  of  the  corporate governance provisions that are applicable in its home country and in the other jurisdictions in  which  its  equity  shares  are  listed  along  with  the  compliance  of  the  same  vis-à-vis  the corporate  governance  requirements  applicable  under  regulation  17  to  regulation  27,  to other listed entities. 64 Documents and Information to IDR Holder.
73.  The  listed  entity  shall  disclose/send  the  following  documents  to  IDR  Holders,  at  the same time and to the extent that it discloses to security holders in its home country or in other jurisdictions where its securities are listed: (a) Soft  copies  of  the  annual  report  to  all  the  IDR  holders  who  have  registered  their email address(es) for the purpose (b) Hard  copy  of  the  annual  report  to  those  IDR  holders  who  request  for  the  same either through domestic depository or Compliance Officer (c) the pre and post arrangement capital structure and share holding pattern in case of any corporate restructuring like mergers / amalgamations and other schemes Equitable Treatment to IDR Holders.
74. (1)If the listed entity's equity shares or other securities representing equity shares are also  listed  on  the  stock  exchange(s)  in  countries  other  than  its  home  country,  it  shall ensure  that  IDR  Holders  are  treated  in  a  manner  equitable  with  security  holders  in home country.
(2)  The  listed  entity  shall  ensure  that  for  all  corporate  actions,  except  those  which  are  not permitted  by  Indian  laws,  it  shall  treat  IDR  holders  in  a  manner  equitable  with  security holders in the home country.
(3)  In  case  of  take-over  or  delisting  or  buy-back  of  its  equity  shares,  the  listed  entity  shall, while following the laws applicable in its home country, give equitable treatment to  IDR holders vis-à-vis security holder in home country.
(4)  The  listed  entity  shall  ensure  protection  of  interests  of  IDR  holders  particularly  with respect  to  all  corporate  benefits  permissible  under  Indian  laws  and  the  laws  of  its  home country and shall address all investor grievances adequately. Advertisements in Newspapers.
75. (1)The listed entity shall publish the following information in the newspaper : (a) periodical financial results required to be disclosed; (b) Notices given to its IDR Holders by advertisement;
(2) The information specified in  sub-regulation  (1) shall be issued  in at  one English national daily  newspaper  circulating  in  the  whole  or  substantially  the  whole  of  India  and  in  one Hindi national daily newspaper in India. Terms of Indian Depository Receipts.
76. (1) The listed entity shall pay the dividend as per the timeframe applicable in its home country or other jurisdictions where its securities are listed, whichever is earlier, so as to reach the IDR Holders on or before the date fixed for payment of dividend to holders of its equity share or other securities.
(2) The listed entity shall not forfeit unclaimed dividends before the claim becomes barred by law in the home country of the listed entity, as may be applicable, and that such forfeiture, when effected, shall  be annulled in appropriate cases. 65
(3) The Indian Depository Receipts shall have two-way fungibility in the manner specified by the Board from time to time. Structure of Indian Depository Receipts.
77. (1)  The  listed  entity  shall  ensure  that  the  underlying  shares  of  IDRs  shall  rank  pari- passu with the existing shares of the same class and the fact of having different classes of shares based on different criteria, if any, shall be disclosed by the listed entity in the annual report.
(2)  The  listed  entity  shall  not  exercise  a  lien  on  the  fully  paid  underlying  shares,  against which  the  IDRs  are  issued,  and  that  in  respect  of  partly  paid  underlying  shares,  against which the IDRs are issued and shall also not exercise any lien except in respect of moneys called or payable at a fixed time in respect of such underlying shares.
(3) The listed entity, subject to the requirements under the laws and regulations of its home country,  if  any  amount  be  paid  up  in  advance  of  calls  on  any  underlying  shares  against which the IDRs are issued, shall stipulate that such amount may carry interest but shall not in respect thereof confer a right to dividend or to participate in profits. Record Date.
78. (1)  The  listed  entity,  where  it  is  required  so  to  do  in  its  home  country  or  other jurisdictions where its securities may be listed, shall fix the record date for the purpose of payment of dividends or distribution of any other corporate benefits to IDR Holders.
(2)  The  listed  entity  shall  give  notice  in  advance  of  at  least  four  working  days  to  the recognised stock exchange(s) of record date specifying the purpose of the record date. Voting.
79. (1) The listed entity shall, either directly or through an agent, send out proxy forms to IDR  Holders  in  all  cases  mentioning  that  a  security  holder  may  vote  either  for  or against each resolution.
(2)  Voting  rights  of  the  IDR  Holders  shall  be  exercised  in  accordance  with  the  depository agreement. Delisting of Indian Depository Receipt.
80. (1) The listed entity shall, if it decides to delist  Indian Depository Receipts, give fair and reasonable treatment to IDR holders.
(2) The  listed  entity  shall  comply  with  such  norms  and  conditions  for  delisting  Indian Depository Receipts as specified by the Board or stock exchange in this regard.
(3) The listed entity shall, in case underlying equity shares are delisted, shall delist and cancel the Indian Depository Receipts. 66 OBLIGATIONS OF LISTED ENTITY WHICH HAS LISTED ITS SECURITISED CHAPTER VIII DEBT INSTRUMENTS Applicability.
81. (1)  The  provisions  of  this  chapter  shall  apply  to  Special  Purpose  Distinct  Entity issuing  securitised  debt  instruments  and  trustees  of  Special  Purpose  Distinct  Entity shall ensure compliance with each of the provisions of these regulations.
(2) The  expressions  "asset  pool",  "clean  up  call  option",  "credit  enhancement",  "debt  or receivables",  "investor",  "liquidity  provider",  "obligor",  "originator",  "regulated  activity", "scheme", "securitization", "securitized debt instrument", "servicer", "special purpose distinct entity",  "sponsor"  and  "trustee"  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  them  under [Securities and Exchange Board of  India  (Issue  and  Listing of Securitised Debt  Instruments and Security Receipts) Regulations, 2008]123; Intimation and filings with stock exchange(s).
82. (1)  The  listed  entity  shall  intimate  the  Stock  exchange,  of  its  intention  to  issue  new securitized debt instruments either through a public issue or on private placement basis (if it proposes to list such privately placed debt securities on the Stock exchange) prior to issuing such securities.
(2) The  listed  entity  shall  intimate  to  the  stock  exchange(s),  at  least  two  working  days  in advance,  excluding  the  date  of  the  intimation  and  date  of  the  meeting,  regarding  the meeting  of  its  board  of  trustees,  at  which  the  recommendation  or  declaration  of  issue  of securitized debt instruments or any other matter affecting the rights or interests of holders of securitized debt instruments is proposed to be considered.
(3) The  listed  entity  shall  submit  such  statements,  reports  or  information  including  financial information  pertaining  to  Schemes  to  stock  exchange  within  seven  days  from  the  end  of the month/ actual payment date, either by itself or through the servicer, on a monthly basis in the format as specified by the Board from time to time: Provided that where periodicity of the receivables is not monthly, reporting shall be made for the relevant periods.
(4) The listed entity shall provide the stock exchange, either by itself or through the servicer, loan  level  information,  without  disclosing  particulars  of  individual  borrowers,  in  manner specified by stock exchange. Disclosure  of  information  having  bearing  on  performance/operation  of  listed  entity and/or price sensitive information.
83. (1)    The  listed  entity  shall  promptly  inform  the  stock  exchange(s)  of  all  information having bearing on the on performance/operation of the listed entity and price sensitive information.
(2) Without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of  sub-regulation(1),  the  listed  entity  shall  make  the disclosures specified in Part D of Schedule III. informed must as soon as practically possible and without any delay and that the information shall be given first to the stock exchange(s) before providing the same to any third party. Credit Rating.
84. (1)  Every  rating  obtained  by  the  listed  entity  with  respect  to  securitised  debt instruments  shall be periodically reviewed, preferably once a  year, by  a   credit rating agency registered by the Board.
(2) Any revision in rating(s) shall be disseminated by the stock exchange(s). Information to Investors.
85. (1)  The  listed  entity  shall  provide  either  by  itself  or  through  the  servicer,  loan  level information without disclosing particulars of individual borrower to its investors.
(2) The listed entity shall provide information regarding revision in rating as a result of credit rating done periodically in terms of regulation 84 above to its investors.
(3) The  information  at  sub-regulation  (1)  and  (2)  may  be  sent  to  investors  in  electronic form/fax if so consented by the investors.
(4) The  listed  entity  shall  display  the  email  address  of  the  grievance  redressal  division  and other relevant details prominently on its website and in the various materials / pamphlets/ advertisement campaigns initiated by it for creating investor awareness. Terms of Securitized Debt Instruments.
86. (1)  The  listed  entity  shall  ensure  that  no  material  modification  shall  be  made  to  the structure  of  the  securitized  debt  instruments  in  terms  of  coupon,  conversion, redemption,  or  otherwise  without  prior  approval  of  the  recognised  stock  exchange(s) where  the  securitized  debt  instruments  are  listed  and  the  listed  entity  shall  make  an application to the recognised stock exchange(s) only after the approval by Trustees.
(2) The listed entity shall ensure timely interest/ redemption payment.
(3) The listed entity shall ensure that where credit enhancement has been provided for, it shall make credit enhancement available for listed securitized debt instruments at all times.
(4) The  listed  entity  shall  not  forfeit  unclaimed  interest  and  principal  and  such  unclaimed interest  and  principal  shall  be,  after  a  period  of  seven  years,  transferred  to  the  Investor Protection  and  Education  Fund  established  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of India (Investor Protection and Education Fund) Regulations, 2009.
(5) Unless  the  terms  of  issue  provide  otherwise,  the  listed  entity  shall  not  select  any  of  its listed securitized debt instruments for redemption otherwise than on pro rata basis or by lot and shall promptly submit to the recognised stock exchange(s) the details thereof. 68
(6) The  listed  entity  shall  remain  listed  till  the  maturity  or  redemption  of  securitised  debt instruments or till the same are delisted as per the procedure laid down by the Board Provided  that  the  provisions  of  this  sub-regulation  shall  not  restrict  the  right  of  the recognised stock exchange(s) to delist, suspend or remove the securities at any time and for  any  reason  which  the  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  considers  proper  in  accordance with the applicable legal provisions. Record Date.
87. (1)  The  listed  entity  shall  fix  a  record  date  for  payment  of  interest  and  payment  of redemption  or  repayment  amount  or  for  such  other  purposes  as  specified  by  the recognised stock exchange(s).
(2)  The  listed  entity  shall  give  notice  in  advance  of  atleast  seven  working  days  (excluding the date of intimation and the record date) to the recognised stock exchange(s) of the record date or of as many days as the Stock Exchange may agree to or require specifying the purpose of the record date. OBLIGATIONS OF LISTED ENTITY WHICH HAS LISTED ITS SECURITY 124[CHAPTER VIII A RECEIPTS Applicability.
87A. (1) The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the issuer of security receipts which has listed  its  security  receipts  and  the  issuer  and  its  sponsor  shall  ensure  compliance  with each of the provisions of these Regulations.
(2) The expressions “asset reconstruction company”, "investor", “issue”, “issuer”,  “offer for sale”, “private placement offer”, “qualified buyer”, "scheme", “security receipts”, "sponsor", and “valuer” shall have the same meaning as assigned to them under Securities and Exchange Board  of  India  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments  and  Security  Receipts) Regulations, 2008. Intimations and Disclosure of events or information to Stock Exchanges.
87B. (1) The listed entity shall first disclose to stock exchange(s) of all events or information, as specified in Part E of Schedule III, as soon as reasonably possible but not later than twenty four hours from occurrence of the event or information: Provided that in case the disclosure is made after twenty four hours of occurrence of the event or information, the listed entity shall, along with such disclosures provide explanation for the delay.
(2)  The  listed  entity  with  respect  to  disclosures  referred  to  in  this  regulation,  shall  provide updates  related  to  such  disclosures  on  a  regular  basis,  till  such  time  the  event  is resolved/closed, with relevant explanations.
(3)  The  listed  entity  shall  provide  specific  and  adequate  reply  to  all  queries  raised  by  stock exchange(s) with respect to any events or information. Provided that the stock exchange(s) shall disseminate information and clarification as soon as reasonably practicable.
(4)  The  listed  entity,  suo  moto,  may  confirm  or  deny  any  reported  event  or  information  to stock exchange(s).
(5)  The  listed  entity  shall  disclose  on  its  website  or  on  the  website  of  the  sponsor  all  such events  or  information  which  has  been  disclosed  to  stock  exchange(s)  under  this  regulation, and such disclosures shall be hosted on the website of the listed entity for a minimum period of five  years and thereafter as per the archival policy of the listed entity, as disclosed on its website. Valuation, Rating and NAV disclosure.
87C. (1) An issuer whose security receipts are listed on a stock exchange shall ensure that: (i) the listed security receipts are valued at the end of each quarter  i.e. as on March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of every year; (ii) valuation is conducted by an independent valuer; and (iii) the net asset value is calculated on the basis of such independent valuation and the same  is  declared  by  the  asset  reconstruction  company  within  fifteen  days  of  the end of the quarter.
(2)  The  issuer  shall  also  comply  with  the  extant  Reserve  Bank  of  India  requirement  of obtaining  credit  rating  of  security  receipts  at  half  yearly  interval  and  declaration  of  the  net asset  value  thereafter  and/or  any  other  requirement  as  prescribed  by  the  Reserve  Bank  of India from time to time. Provided that in those two quarters in a year, where both external valuation and credit rating are required, issuer shall disclose lower of the two calculated Net Asset Value. Terms of Security Receipts.
87D. (1) Any security receipt issued would be transferable only in favour of qualified buyers in  terms  of  Securitisation  and  Reconstruction  of  Financial  Assets  and  Enforcement  of Security Interest Act, 2002.
(2)  Unless  the  terms  of  issue  provide  otherwise,  the  listed  entity  shall  not  select  any  of  its listed  security  receipts  for  payments  otherwise  than  on  pro  rata  basis  or  by  lot  and  shall promptly submit to the stock exchange(s) the details thereof. Record Date.
87E. (1) The listed entity shall fix a record date for payment to holders of security receipts or for such other purposes as specified by the stock exchange(s). 70
(2) The listed entity shall give notice in advance of at least seven working days (excluding the date  of  intimation  and  the  record  date)  to  the  stock  exchange(s)  of  the  record  date  or  of  as many days as the stock exchange may agree to or require specifying the purpose of the record date.] CHAPTER IX OBLIGATIONS OF LISTED ENTITY WHICH HAS LISTED ITS MUTUAL FUND UNITS Applicability.
88. (1)The  provisions  of  this  chapter  shall  apply  to  the  asset  management  company managing  the  mutual  fund  scheme  whose  units  are  listed  on  the  recognised  stock exchange(s).
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  this  chapter,  the  provisions  of  the  Securities  and Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1996  and  directions  issued thereunder shall apply on the listed entity and to the schemes whose units are listed on the recognised stock exchange(s). Definitions.
89.  The  expressions  "Asset  Management  Company",    "Net  Asset  Value"  ,  "Scheme"  , "Unit"  and  "Unit  Holder"      shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  them  under Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996; Submission of Documents.
90. (1) The  listed entity shall intimate to the recognised stock exchange(s) the information relating  to  daily  Net  Asset  Value,  monthly  portfolio,  half  yearly  portfolio  of  those schemes  whose  units  are  listed  on  the  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  in  the  format  as specified  under  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual  Funds)  Regulations, 1996 and directions issued there under.
(2)  The    listed  entity  shall  intimate  to  the  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  in  the  manner specified by the recognised stock exchange(s) of: (a) movement in unit capital of those schemes whose units are listed on the recognised stock exchange(s); (b) rating of the scheme whose units are listed on the recognised stock exchange(s) and any changes in the rating thereof (wherever applicable); (c) imposition of penalties and material litigations against the listed entity and Mutual Fund; (d) any prohibitory orders restraining the listed entity from transferring units registered in the name of the unit holders. Dissemination on the website of stock exchange(s).
91. The listed entity shall submit such information and documents, which are required to be  disseminated  on  the  listed  entity’s  website  in  terms  of  Securities  and  Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 and directions issued there under, to the recognised stock exchange for dissemination. 71 DUTIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE(S) CHAPTER X Dissemination.
92. (1)  Upon  receipt  of  relevant  intimations,  information,  filings,  reports,  statements, documents or any other submissions in terms of these regulations, from the listed entity the  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  shall  immediately  disseminate  the  same  on  its website.
(2) The  disseminations  by  the  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  as  mentioned  in  sub-regulation
(1)  shall  be  made  in  organised,  user  friendly  and  easily  referable  manner  including  by providing hyperlinks for easy accessibility. Transferability.
93. The  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  shall  coordinate  with  Depositories  to  ensure compliance with the applicable laws or directions of the Board or any competent court with  regard  to  freezing  /  unfreezing,  lock-in/  release  of  lock-in  with  respect  to securities issued or managed by the listed entity. Draft Scheme of Arrangement & Scheme of Arrangement.
94. (1) The designated stock exchange, upon receipt of draft schemes of arrangement and the documents prescribed by the Board, as per sub-regulation (1) of regulation 37, shall forward the same to the Board, in the manner prescribed by the Board.
(2) The  stock  exchange(s)  shall  submit  to  the  Board  its  Objection  Letter  or  No- Objection  Letter  on  the  draft  scheme  of  arrangement  after  inter-alia  ascertaining whether  the  draft  scheme  of  arrangement  is  in  compliance  with  securities  laws within  thirty days of receipt of draft scheme of arrangement or within seven days of date of receipt of satisfactory reply on clarifications from the listed entity and/or opinion  from if  any,  sought  by  stock exchange(s), as applicable. independent  chartered  accountant,
(3) The stock exchange(s), shall issue Observation Letter or No-objection letter to the listed  entity  within  seven  days  of  receipt  of  comments  from  the  Board,  after suitably  incorporating  such  comments  in  the  Observation  Letter  or  No-objection letter: Provided that the validity of the ‘Observation Letter’ or No-objection letter of stock exchanges shall be six months from the date of issuance.
(4) The stock exchange(s) shall bring the  observations or objections, as the case may be,  to  the  notice  of  Court  or  Tribunal  at  the  time  of  approval  of  the  scheme  of arrangement.
(5) Upon  sanction  of  the  Scheme  by  the  Court  or  Tribunal,  the  designated  stock exchange  shall  forward  its  recommendations  to  the  Board  on  the  documents submitted by the listed entity in terms of sub-regulation (5) of regulation 37. 72 [Statement on Impact of Audit Qualifications accompanying Annual Audit Report.
95.  The  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  shall  review  the  Statement  on  Impact  of  Audit Qualifications and the accompanying annual audit report submitted in terms of clause (d)  of  sub-regulation  (3)  of  regulation  33  and  clause  (a)  of  sub-regulation  (3)  of regulation 52.]125 Grievance Redressal.
96. The  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  shall  redress/facilitate  redressal  of  complaints  of holders of listed securities from time to time. Monitoring of Compliance/Non Compliance & Adequacy/ Accuracy of the disclosures
97. (1)  The  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  shall  monitor  compliance  by  the  listed  entity with provisions of these regulations.
(2) The recognised stock exchange(s) shall also monitor adequacy/ accuracy of the disclosures made by listed entity with respect to provisions of these regulations.
(3) The  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  shall  submit  a  report  to  the  Board,  with  respect  to  the obligations specified in sub-regulations (1) and (2), in the manner specified by the Board.
(4) The  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  shall  put  in  place  appropriate  framework  including adequate  manpower  and  such  infrastructure  as  may  be  required  to  comply  with  the provisions of this regulation.
95. The recognised stock exchange(s) shall review the Form B and the accompanying annual audit report, submitted in terms of clause (d) of sub-regulation (3) of regulation 33 and clause (a) of sub-regulation (3) of regulation 52, in the manner specified in Schedule VIII.’ by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT CHAPTER XI Liability for contravention of the Act, rules or the regulations.
98. (1) The listed entity or any other person thereof who contravenes any of the provisions of these regulations,  shall, in addition to  liability for action in terms of the  securities laws,  be  liable  for  the  following  actions  by  the  respective  stock  exchange(s),  in  the manner specified in circulars or guidelines issued by the Board: (a) imposition of fines; (b) suspension of trading; (c) freezing  of  promoter/promoter  group  holding  of  designated  securities,  as  may  be applicable, in coordination with depositories. (d) any other action as may be specified by the Board from time to time
(2) The  manner  of  revocation  of  actions  specified  in  clauses  (b)  and  (c)  of  sub-regulation  (1), shall be as specified in circulars or guidelines issued by the Board. Failure to pay fine.
99. If listed entity fails to pay any fine imposed on it within such period as specified from time  to  time,  by  the  recognised  stock  exchange(s),  after  a  notice  in  writing  has  been served on it, the stock exchange may initiate action. 126[CHAPTER XI-A POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
99A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)  Any  exemption  granted  by  the  Board  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  subject  to  the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. testing  environment  where  new  products,  processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  may  be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering innovation  in  the  securities  market,  subject  to  such  conditions  as  may  be  specified  by  the Board.] CHAPTER XII MISCELLANEOUS Amendments to other regulations.
100. The regulations specified in the Schedule IX to these regulations shall be amended in the manner and to the extent stated therein. 74 Power to remove difficulties.
101. (1)  In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  application  or  interpretation  of  these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications through guidance notes or circulars after recording reasons in writing.
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such guidance notes or circulars  may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely: (a) procedural aspects including intimation to be given, documents to be submitted; (b) disclosure requirements; (c) listing conditions. Power to relax strict enforcement of the regulations.
102. [(1)]127 The  Board  may  in  the  interest  of  investors  and  securities  market  and  for  the development of the securities market, relax the strict enforcement of any  requirement of these regulations, if the Board is satisfied that: (a)  any  provision  of  Act(s),  Rule(s),  regulation(s)  under  which  the  listed  entity  is established or is governed by, is required to be given precedence to; or (b) the requirement may cause undue hardship to investors; or (c)  the disclosure requirement is not relevant for a particular industry or class of listed entities; or (d) the requirement is technical in nature; or (e)  the non-compliance is caused due to factors affecting a class of entities but being beyond the control of the entities.
128[(2) For seeking relaxation under sub-regulation (1), an application, giving details and the grounds on which such relaxation has been sought, shall be filed with the Board.
(3) The application referred to under sub-regulation (2) shall be accompanied by a non- refundable fee of rupees one lakh payable by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/ RTGS/ IMPS or any other mode allowed by Reserve Bank of India or by way of a demand draft in favour of the Board payable in Mumbai.] Repeal and Savings
103. (1)  On  and  from  the  commencement  of  these  regulations,  all  circulars  stipulating  or modifying  the  provisions  of  the  listing  agreements  including  those  specified  in Schedule X, shall stand rescinded.
3.  Application  for  grant  of  certificate  15[of  16[***]  registration].─(1)  An application  by  a  registrar  to  an  issue  or  a  share  transfer  agent  for  grant  of  a certificate 17[of 18[***] registration] shall be made to the Board in Form A. 19[(1A)  An  application  for  registration  made  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as specified in Schedule II.]
(2) The application under sub-regulation (1) may be made for any of the following categories, namely: (a) Category  I:  to  carry on  the  activities  as  a  registrar  to  an  issue  and  share transfer agent; (b) Category II: to carry on the activity either as a registrar to an issue or as a share transfer agent;
(3)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  any  application made  by  a  registrar  to  an  issue  or  a  share  transfer  agent  prior  to  coming  into force  of  these  regulations  containing  such  particulars  as  near  thereto  as mentioned  in  Form  A  shall  be  treated  as  an  application  made  in  pursuance  of sub-regulation (1) and dealt with accordingly.
4. To furnish further information, clarification etc.─(1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish further information or clarifications regarding activities and matters connected thereto to consider the application for grant of a certificate.
(2)  The  applicant  or,  its  principal  officer  shall,  if  so  required,  appear  before  the Board for personal representation.
5.  Application  to  conform  to  the  requirements.─Subject  to  the  provisions  of sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  3,  any  application,  which  is  not  complete  in  all respects and does not conform to the instructions specified in the form, shall be rejected. Provided  that,  before  rejecting  any  such  application,  the  applicant  shall  be given an opportunity to remove within the time specified such objections as may be indicated by the Board.
6.  Consideration  of  application.─The  Board  shall  take  into  account  for considering  the  grant  of  a  certificate  all  matters  which  are  relevant  to  the activities and in particular the following, namely, whether the applicant─ (a)  has the necessary infrastructure like adequate office space, equipments and man- power to effectively discharge his activities; (b) has any past experience in the activities; (c)  or  any  person  directly  or  indirectly  connected  with  him  has  not  been granted registration by the Board under the Act; (d) fulfills the capital adequacy requirement specified in regulation 7; (e) is subjected to any disciplinary proceedings under the Act; (f)  or  any  of  its  director,  partner  or  principal  officer  is  or  has  at  any  time been  convicted  for  any  offence  involving  moral  turpitude  or  has  been found guilty of any economic offence. 20[(g) is a fit and proper person.]
21[6A.  Criteria  for  fit  and  proper  person.─For  the  purposes  of  determining whether an applicant is a fit and proper person the Board may take into account the criteria specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.]
7.  Capital  Adequacy  Requirement.─(1)  The  capital  adequacy  requirement referred to in clause (d) of regulation 6 shall not be less than the net worth of the applicant specified in sub- regulation (2).
(2) For the purposes of sub- regulation (1), the networth of the applicant shall be as follows, namely: (a)   Category I specified in clause (a) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3,  - Rs. 22[50,00,000]; (b)   Category II specified in clause (b) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3, - Rs. 23[25,00,000]: 24[Provided  that  a  registrar  to  an  issue  or  a  share  transfer  agent, who was granted a certificate of initial or permanent registration, as the case may be, under these regulations prior to the commencement of the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Registrars  to  an  Issue  and Share  Transfer  Agents)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2011,  shall raise  its  net  worth  to  the  said  minimum  within  a  period  of  three  years from such commencement:] 25[Provided 26[further] that the capital adequacy requirement shall not be applicable for a department or division of a body corporate performing activities referred to in sub-clause (i) of clause (g) of regulation 2.]
(3) In sub-regulation (2) the "networth" means– (a)   in  the  case  of  an  applicant  being  a  proprietary  concern  or  a  firm  or  an association  of  persons  or  any  body  of  individuals,  the  value  of  capital “6A.  Applicability  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Criteria  for  Fit  and  Proper Person) Regulations, 2004.─The provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Criteria for Fit and Proper Person) Regulations, 2004 shall, as far as may be, apply to all applicants or the registrars to an issue and share transfer agents under these regulations. “ contributed  to  such  business  by  the  applicant  and  the  free  reserves  of any kind belonging to the business of the applicant, and (b) in the case of a body corporate, the value of the paid up capital and the free  reserves  as  disclosed  in  the  books  of  accounts  of  the  applicant  at the time of making the application under sub-regulation (1) of regulation
3.
27[8.  Grant  of  certificate  of  28[***]  registration.─(1)  The  Board,  on  being satisfied  that  the  applicant  is  eligible,  shall  send  an  intimation  to  the  applicant mentioning  the  category  for  which  the  applicant  has  been  found  eligible  for  the grant of certificate of 29[***] registration and grant a certificate in Form B.
(2) 30[The certificate of registration granted under sub-regulation (1) shall be valid unless it is suspended or cancelled by the Board.]
(3)  31[(3) The register to an issue or share transfer agent who has already been granted certificate of registration by the Board, prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Conditions of Registration of Certain  Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  shall  be  deemed  to have been granted a certificate of registration, in terms of sub-regulation (1).]
(4) The grant of certificate of 32[***] registration shall be subject to payment of fee specified in regulation 12.]
8A. 33[***]
9. 34[***]
35[9A.  Conditions  of  registration.─(1)  36[registration  granted  under  regulation 8]] shall be subject to the following conditions, namely:- Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 (a) where a registrar to an issue or a share transfer agent proposes 37[change in control], it shall obtain prior approval of the Board for continuing to act as such after the change; (b) without prejudice to its obligations under any other law for the time being in  force,  it  shall  enter  into  a  legally  binding  agreement  with  the  body corporate  or  the  person  or  group  of  persons  for  or  on  whose  behalf  it  is acting  as  a  registrar  to  an  issue  or  a  share  transfer agent  stating  therein the  allocation  of  duties  and  responsibilities  between  itself  and  such  body corporate or person or group of persons, as the case may be; (c)  38[it  shall  pay  the  fees  for  registration,  in  the  manner  provided  in  these regulations;] (d) it shall maintain capital adequacy requirements specified in regulation 7 at all  times  during  the  period  of  the  39[initial  registration  or  permanent registration]; (e)  it  shall  take  adequate  steps  for  redressal  of  grievances  of  the  investors within one month of the date of the receipt of the complaint and keep the Board  informed  about  the  number,  nature  and  other  particulars  of  the complaints received and the manner in which such complaints have been redressed; (f)  it  shall  abide  by  the  regulations  made  under  the  Act  in  respect  of  the activities  carried  on  by  it  as  a  registrar  to  an  issue  or  a  share  transfer agent. registration  granted  under  regulation  8A”  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016
(3) Any applicant may, being aggrieved by the decision of the Board under sub- regulation (2) apply within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of such intimation, to the Board for reconsideration of its decision.
(4) On receipt  of  the  application made  under  sub-regulation (3),  the  Board  shall reconsider its decision and communicate its findings thereon as soon as possible in writing to the applicant.
11. 44[***]
12.  Payment  of  fees  and  the  consequences  of  failure  to  pay  fees.─  45[(1) Every  applicant  eligible  for  grant  of  registration,  shall  pay  the  fees  in  such manner and within the period specified in Schedule II:] Provided  that  the  Board  may  on  sufficient  cause  being  shown  permit  the registrar to an issue or share transfer agent to pay such fees at any time before the expiry of six months from the date on which such fees become due.
11. Effect of refusal to grant or renew certficate.─Any registrar to an issue or share transfer agent, whose application for grant or renewal of a certificate has been refused by the Board shall on and from the date of the receipt of the communication under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 10 cease to carry on any activity as registrar to an issue or share transfer agent:”
(2) Where a registrar to an issue or share transfer agent fails to pay the fees as provided  in  sub-  regulation  (1),  the  Board  may  suspend  the  certificate, whereupon the registrar to an issue or share transfer agent shall cease to carry on  any  of  his  activity  as  a  registrar  to  an  issue  or  share  transfer  agent,  as  the case may be. CHAPTER III GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
13.  To  abide  by  Code  of  Conduct.─Every  registrar  to  an  issue  and  share transfer agent holding a certificate shall at all times abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in Schedule III.
46[13A.  Registrar  to  an  Issue  not  to  act  as  such  for  an  associate.─No registrar to an issue shall act as such registrar for any issue of securities in case he or it is an associate of the body corporate issuing the securities. body  corporate  as  the  case  may  be  shall  be  deemed  to  be  an  associate  of  the other where:- (a) he or it controls directly or indirectly not less than 10 percent of the voting power  of  the  body  corporate  or  of  the  registrar  to  an  issue,  as  the  case may be; or, (b) he or any of his relative is a director  47[or promoter] of the body corporate or of the registrar to an issue, as the case may be. The term 'relative' shall have the same meaning as is assigned to it under section 6 of the Companies Act, 1956.]
14.  To  maintain  proper  books  of  accounts  and  records,  etc.─(1)  Every registrar to an issue and share transfer agent being a body corporate shall keep and  maintain  the  following  books  of  accounts  and  documents  in  respect  of 48[eight] preceding financial years, namely: - (a) in  relation  to  registrar  to  an  issue and  share transfer  agent  being  a  body corporate (i)  a  copy  of  balance  sheet  and  profit  and  loss  account  as  specified  in sections 211 and 212 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956); (ii)  a  copy  of  the  auditor's  report  referred  to  in  section  227  of  the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956); (iii) a statement of capital adequacy requirements for each quarter. (b) in  relation  to  registrar  to  an  issue  and  share  transfer  agent  not  being  a body corporate – (i)  all sums of money received and expended by them and the matters in respect of which the receipt and expenditure take place; (ii)  their assets and liabilities; and (iii) a statement of capital adequacy requirements for each quarter.
(2)  Every  registrar  to  an  issue  shall  also  maintain  the  following  records  with respect to:- (a) all the applications received from investors in respect of an issue; (b) all applications of investors rejected and reasons therefor; (c) basis of allotment of securities to the investors as finalised in consultation with the stock exchange; (d) terms and conditions of purchase of securities; (e) allotment of securities; (f)  list of names of allottees and non-allottees of the securities; (g) refund  orders  dispatched  to  investors  in  respect  of  application  monies received from them in response to an issue; (h) such  other  records  as  may  be  specified  by  the  Board  for  carrying  on the activities as registrars to an issue.
(3) Every share transfer agent shall maintain the following records in respect of a body corporate on whose behalf he is carrying on the activities as share transfer agent namely:- (a) list of holders of securities of such body corporate; (b) the  names  of  transferor  and  transferee  and  the  dates  of  transfer  of securities; (c) such other records as may be specified by the Board for carrying out the activities as share transfer agents.
(4) Every registrar to an issue or share transfer agent shall intimate the Board the place where the books of accounts, records and documents are maintained.
(5) Without prejudice to sub- regulation (1), every registrar to an issue and share transfer agent shall, after the close of each financial year as soon as possible but not later than six months from the close of the said period furnish to the Board if so  required  copies  of  the  balance  sheet,  profit  and  loss  account,  statement  of capital adequacy requirement and such other documents as may be required by the Board under regulation 14.
15.  Maintenance  of  records.─Subject  to  provisions  of  any  other  law,  the registrar to an issue or share transfer agent shall preserve the books of accounts and other records and documents maintained under regulation 14 for a minimum period of 49[eight] years.
50[15A. Appointment of a Compliance Officer.─(1) Every registrar to an issue and  share  transfer  agent  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be responsible  for  monitoring  the  compliance  of  the  Act,  rules  and  regulations, notifications,  guidelines,  instructions  etc.  issued  by  the  Board  or  the  Central Government and for redressal of investors' grievances.
(2)  The  compliance  officer  shall  immediately  and  independently  report  to  the Board any non-compliance observed by him.] CHAPTER IV PROCEDURE FOR INSPECTION
16. Board's right to inspect.─(1) Where it appears to the Board so to do, it may appoint  one  or  more  persons  as  inspecting  authority  to  undertake  inspection  of the books of accounts, other records and documents of the registrar to an issue or share transfer agent for any of the purposes specified in sub- regulation (2).
(2) The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be as follows, namely: (a) to  ensure  that  the  books  of  accounts  and  other  books  are  being maintained in the manner required; (b) that the provisions of the Act, rules, regulations and the provisions of the Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956,  (42  of  1956)  and  the  rules made thereunder are being complied with; (c) to investigate into the complaints received from investors, other registrars to  an  issue  or  share  transfer  agents  or  any  other  intermediaries  in  the securities  market  on  any  matter  having  a  bearing  on  the  activities  of  the registrar to an issue or share transfer agent; (d) to  investigate  suo-moto  in  the  interest  of  securities  market  or  investors interest into the affairs of the registrar to an issue or share transfer agent.
17.  Procedure  for  inspection.─(1)  Before  undertaking  an  inspection  under regulation 16, the Board shall give a reasonable notice to the registrar to an issue or share transfer agent for that purpose.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied  that  in  the  interest  of  the  investors  or  in  public  interest  no  such  notice should  be  given,  it  may  by  an  order  in  writing  direct  that  the  inspection  of  the affairs  of  the  registrar  to  an  issue  and  share transfer  agent  be  taken  up  without such notice.
(3)  On  being empowered  by  the  Board,  the  inspecting  authority  shall  undertake the inspection and the registrar to an issue or share transfer agent against whom an inspection is being carried out shall be bound to discharge his obligations as provided under regulation 18.
18.  Obligations  of  registrar  to  an  issue  and  share  transfer  agent  on inspection  by  the  Board.─(1)  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  director,  proprietor, partner, officer and employee of the registrar to an issue or share transfer agent, who  is  being  inspected,  to  produce  to  the  inspecting  authority  such  books, accounts and other documents in his custody or control and furnish him with the statements and information relating to the transactions in securities market within such time as the said officer may require.
(2)  The  registrar  to  an  issue  or  share  transfer  agent  shall  allow  the  inspecting authority to have reasonable access to the premises occupied by them or by any other  person  on  their  behalf  and  also  extend  reasonable  facility  for  examining any  books,  records,  documents  and  computer  data  in  the  possession  of  the registrar to an issue or share  transfer agent or any other person on their behalf and also provide copies of documents or other materials which, in the opinion of the inspecting authority are relevant.
(3)  The  inspecting  authority,  in  the  course  of  inspection,  shall  be  entitled  to examine  or  record  statements  of  any  member,  director,  partner,  proprietor  and employee of the registrar to an issue or share transfer agent.
(4) It shall be the duty of every director, proprietor, partner, officer or employee of the  registrar  to  an  issue  and  share  transfer  agent  to  give  to  the  inspecting authority  all  assistance  in  connection  with  the  inspection,  which  the  registrar  to an issue or share transfer agent may be reasonably be expected to give.
19.  Submission  of  Report  to  the  Board.─The  inspecting  authority  shall,  as soon as possible submit, an inspection report to the Board.
51[20.  Action  on  inspection  or  investigation  report.─The  Board  or  the Chairman  shall  after  consideration  of  the  inspection  or  investigation  report  take
21.  Appointment  of  Auditor.─Notwithstanding  anything  contained  above,  the Board  may  appoint  an  auditor  who  is  qualified  to  be  appointed  as  such  for  a company  under  section  226  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  (1  of  1956)  to investigate into the books of account or the affairs of the registrar to an issue and share transfer agent: Provided  that  the  auditor  so  appointed  shall  have  the  same  powers  of  the inspecting  authority  as  mentioned  in  regulation  16  and  the  obligations  of  the registrar to an issue and share transfer agent in regulation 18 shall be applicable to the investigation under this regulation. CHAPTER V PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT
52[22.  Liability  for  action  in  case  of  default.─A  registrar  to  an  issue  or  share transfer agent who- (a) fails to comply with any conditions subject to which registration has been granted; (b) contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, rules or regulations; “20.  Communication  of  findings  etc.─(1)  The  Board  shall  after  consideration  of  the  inspection report  communicate  the  findings  to  the  registrar  to  an  issue  or  share  transfer  agent  to  give  him  an opportunity  of  being  heard  before  any  action  is  taken  by  the  Board  on  the  findings  of  the  inspecting authority.
(2) On receipt of the explanation if any, from the registrar to an issue or share transfer agent, the Board may  call  upon  them  to  take  such  measures  as  the  Board  may  deem  fit  in  the  interest  of  the  securities market and for due compliance with the provisions of the Act, rules and regulations.
23. Suspension, cancellation of certificate.─(1) A penalty of suspension of certificate granted to a registrar to an issue or share transfer agent may be imposed if they – (i) (ii) (iii) (iv) violate the provisions of the Act, rules and regulations; do not follow the code of conduct specified at Schedule III; (a)  fail  to  furnish  any  information  related  to  their  activities  or  transactions  in  securities  as required by the Board; (b) furnish wrong or false information; (c) do not submit periodical returns as required by the Board; (d) do not co-operate in any enquiry conducted by the Board; fail to resolve the complaints of the investors or fail to give a satisfactory reply to the Board in this behalf; indulge in manipulating or price rigging or cornering activities; (v) (vi)   are guilty of misconduct, improper, unbusinesslike or unprofessional conduct; (vii)   fail to maintain the capital adequacy requirement specified in regulation 7. (viii)   fail to pay the fees as specified in regulation 12. (ix) Provided that the Board for reasons to be recorded in writing may in case of repeated defaults of the type mentioned above impose a penalty of cancellation of certificate on the registrar to an issue or share transfer agent.
(2) A penalty of cancellation of certificate granted to a registrar to an issue or share transfer agent may be imposed if they – violate the conditions of registration; (i)   indulge in deliberate manipulation or price rigging or cornering activities affecting the securities market and the investors interest; (ii)  violate the provisions of the Act, rules and regulations; (iii)  violate any provisions of insider trading regulations or take-over regulations; (iv)  are guilty of fraud, or convicted of a criminal offence.
24.  Manner  of  order  of  suspension  and  cancellation  of  certificate.─No  order  of  penalty  of suspension  or  cancellation  shall  be  imposed  except  after  holding  an  enquiry  in  accordance  with  the procedure specified in regulation 25.
25. Manner  of  holding  enquiry.─(1)  For  the  purpose  of  holding an enquiry under  regulation  24, the Board may appoint an enquiry officer.
(2)  The  enquiry  officer  shall  issue  to  the  registrar  to  an  issue  or  share  transfer  agent  a  notice  at  the registered office or the principal place of business of the registrar to an issue or share transfer agent. 55[CHAPTER VI POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
30.  (1)  The  Board  may,  exempt  any  person  or  class  of  persons  from  the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may
(3)  The  registrar to an  issue  or  share transfer agent  may,  within thirty  days from  the  date  of receipt  of such notice, furnish to the enquiry officer a reply together with copies of documentary or other evidence relied on by them or sought by the Board from them.
(4) The enquiry officer shall, give a reasonable opportunity of hearing to the registrar to an issue or share transfer agent  to enable them  to make  submissions  in  support of their  reply made under  sub-regulation
(3). (5) Before the enquiry officer, the registrar to an issue or share transfer agent may either appear in person or through any person duly authorised on their behalf: Provided that no lawyer or advocate shall be permitted to represent the registrar to an issue or share transfer agent at the enquiry. Provided further that where a lawyer or an advocate has been appointed by the Board as a presenting officer under sub- regulation (6), it shall be lawful for the registrar to an issue or share transfer agent to present their case through a lawyer or advocate.
(6) If it is considered necessary, the enquiry officer may require the Board to appoint a presenting officer to present its case.
(7)  The  enquiry  officer  shall,  after  taking  into  account  all  relevant  facts  and  submissions  made  by  the registrar to an issue or share transfer agent, submit a report to the Board and recommend the penalty to be awarded as also on the justification of the penalty proposed.
26. Show-cause notice and order.─(1) On receipt of the report from the enquiry officer, the Board shall consider the same and issue a show-cause notice as to why the penalty as it considers appropriate should not be imposed.
(2) The registrar to an issue or share transfer agent shall within twenty-one days of the date of the receipt of the show-cause notice send a reply to the Board.
(3) The Board after considering the reply to the show-cause notice, if received, shall as soon as possible but not later than thirty days from the receipt of the reply, if any, pass such order as it deems fit.
(4)  Every  order  passed  under  sub-  regulation  (3)  shall  be  self-  contained  and  give  reasons  for  the conclusions stated therein including justification of the penalty imposed by that order.
(5) The Board shall send a copy of the order under sub-regulation (3) to the registrar to an issue or share transfer agent.
27. Effect  of  suspension  and cancellation  of  certificate granted  to  registrar  to  an  issue  or  share transfer agent.─(1) On and from the date of the suspension of the certificate, the registrar to an issue or share transfer agent as the case may be, shall cease to carry on any activity with immediate effect, during the period of suspension.
(2) On and from the date of cancellation of the certificate the registrar to an issue or share transfer agent shall with immediate effect cease to carry on any activity.
28.  Publication  of  order  of  suspension.─The  order  of  suspension  or  cancellation  of  certificate passed in regulation 27 shall be published in at least two daily newspapers by the Board.
29. Appeal to the Securities Appellate Tribunal.─Any person aggrieved by an order of the Board made, on and after the commencement of the Securities Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1999, (i.e., after 16th  December  1999), under  these  regulations may  prefer an appeal  to  a  Securities  Appellate Tribunal having jurisdiction in the matter. be  specified  but  not  exceeding  twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new  products,  processes,  services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
3.  (1)  No  person  shall  act  as  a  REIT  unless  it  is  registered  with  the  Board  under  these regulations.
(2) An application for grant of certificate of registration as REIT shall be made, by the sponsor 41[on behalf of the trust] in Form A as specified in the Schedule I to these regulations and shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee of such amount and shall be payable in the manner as specified in Schedule II to these regulations.
(3) The Board may, in order to protect the interests of investors, appoint any person to take charge of records, documents of the  42[REIT] and for this purpose, also determine the terms and conditions of such an appointment.
(4)  The  Board  shall  take  into  account  requirements  as  specified  in  these  regulations  for  the purpose of considering grant of registration. Eligibility criteria. “"value of the REIT" means value  of the REIT as certified by the auditor based on the value of REIT assets held directly or through the SPV excluding any debt or liabilities thereof;”
4. (1) For the purpose of the grant of certificate to  43[the trust], the Board shall consider all matters relevant to the activities as a REIT.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, the Board shall consider the following, namely, - (a)  the applicant is 44[the sponsor on behalf of] trust and the instrument of trust is in the form of a deed duly registered in India under the provisions of the Registration Act, 1908; (b) the trust deed has its main objective as undertaking activity of REIT in accordance with these  regulations  and  includes  responsibilities  of  the  Trustee  in  accordance  with regulation 9; (c)  persons  have  been  designated  as  sponsor(s),  manager  and  trustee  under  these regulations and all such persons are separate entities; (d) with regard to sponsor(s),- (i)  45[each sponsor shall hold or propose] to hold not less than five per cent. of the number of units of the REIT on post-initial offer basis; 46[(ia)  each  sponsor  and  sponsor  group  shall  be  clearly  identified  in  the application of registration to the Board and in the offer document/placement memorandum, as applicable: Provided  that,  for  each  sponsor  group  not  less  than  one  person  shall  be identified as a sponsor;] 47[Provided further that, of the entities categorized as sponsor group, only the following entities may be considered: a)  a person or entity who is directly or indirectly holding an interest or shareholding in any of the assets or SPVs or holdcos proposed to be transferred to the REIT. b)  a person or entity who is directly or indirectly holding units of the REIT on post-issue basis. c)  a  person  or  entity  whose  experience  is  being  utilized  by  the sponsor  for  meeting  with  the  eligibility  conditions  required under  sub-clause  (iii)  of  clause  (d)  of  sub-regulation  (2)  of regulation 4 of these regulations.] (ii) the  sponsor(s),  on  a  collective  basis,  have  a  net  worth  of  not  less  than    one hundred crore rupees: Provided that each sponsor has a net worth of not less than twenty crore rupees; and (iii) the  sponsor  or  its  associate(s)  has  not  less  than  five  years  experience  in development of real estate or fund management in the real estate industry: Provided  that  where  the  sponsor  is  a  developer,  at  least  two  projects  of  the sponsor have been completed; (e)  with regard to the manager,- (i)  the manager has a net worth of not less than ten crore rupees if the manager is a body corporate or a company or net tangible assets of value not less than ten crore rupees in case the manager is a LLP; (ii) the  manager  or  its  associate  has  not  less  than  five  years  experience  in  fund management  or  advisory  services  or  property  management  in  the  real  estate industry or in development of real estate; (iii)the manager has not less than two key personnel who each have not less than five  years  experience  in  fund  management  or  advisory  services  or  property management in the real estate industry or in development of real estate; (iv) the manager has not less than half, of its directors in the case of a company or of members of the governing Board in case of an LLP, as independent and not directors  or  members  of  the  governing  Board  48[of  the  manager]  of  another REIT; and (v) the manager has entered into an investment management agreement with the trustee  which  provides  for  the  responsibilities  of  the  manager  in  accordance with regulation 10; (f)  with regard to the trustee,- (i)  the  trustee  is  registered  with  the  Board  under  SEBI(Debenture  Trustees) Regulations, 1993 and is not an associate of the sponsor(s) or manager; and (ii) the trustee has such wherewithal with respect to infrastructure, personnel, etc. to the satisfaction of the Board and in accordance with circulars or guidelines as may be specified by the Board; (g)  no unit holder of the REIT enjoys 49[superior] voting or any other rights over another unit holder 50[and there are no multiple classes of units of REIT:] 51[Notwithstanding the above, subordinate units may be issued only to  the  sponsors and its associates, where such subordinate units shall carry only inferior voting or any other rights compared to other units;] (h)  52[***] (i) the applicant has clearly described at the time of application for registration, details pertaining to proposed activities of the REIT; (j) the 53[REIT] and parties to the REIT are fit and proper persons based on the criteria as specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; (k)  whether any previous application for grant of certificate by the 54[REIT or the parties to the REIT or their directors/members of governing board] has been rejected by the Board; (l)  whether any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board or any other regulatory authority against the 55[REIT or the parties to the REIT or their directors/members of governing  board]  under  any  Act  or  the  regulations  or  circulars  or  guidelines  made thereunder. Furnishing of further information, clarification and personal representation.
5. (1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish any such information or clarification as may be required by it for the purpose of processing of the application.
(2) The Board, if it so desires, may require the applicant or any authorized representative to appear before the Board for personal representation in connection with the grant of certificate. Procedure for grant of certificate.
6.  (1)  The  Board  on  being  satisfied  that  the  56[trust]  fulfils,  the  requirements  specified  in regulation 4 shall send intimation to the [trust] and on receipt of the payment of registration fees as specified in Schedule II, grant certificate of registration in Form B under Schedule I.
(2) The registration may be granted with such conditions as may be deemed appropriate by the Board. Conditions of certificate.
7.  The  certificate  granted  under  regulation  6  shall,  inter-alia,  be  subject  to  the  following conditions, namely,- (a)  the REIT shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations; (b) the REIT shall forthwith inform the Board in writing, if any information or particulars previously submitted to the Board are found to be false or misleading in any material particular or if there is any material change in the information already submitted; (c)  the REIT and parties to the REIT shall satisfy with the conditions specified in regulation 4 at all times; (d) the REIT and parties to the REIT shall comply, at all times, with the Code of conduct as specified in the Schedule VI, wherever applicable. 57[De-classification of the status of sponsor 7A (1) De-classification of the status of a sponsor(s) of a REIT whose units have been listed on  the  stock  exchanges  for  a  period  of  three  years  shall  be  permitted  upon  receipt  of  an application from the REIT and subject to compliance with the following conditions: (a)  the unit holding of such sponsor and its associates taken together does not exceed 10% of the outstanding units of the REIT; (b) the manager of the REIT is not an entity controlled by such sponsor or its associates; (c)  the sponsor or its associates are not fugitive economic offender; (d) approval  of  unit  holders  has  been  obtained  in  accordance  with  sub-regulation  5  of Regulation 22.] Procedure where registration is refused.
8. (1) After considering an application made under regulation 3, if the Board is of the opinion that a certificate should not be granted to the 58[trust], it may reject the application after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(2) The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the applicant within thirty days of such decision. CHAPTER III RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF PARTIES TO THE REIT, VALUER AND Rights and responsibilities of trustee. AUDITOR
9.  (1)  The  trustee  shall  hold  the  REIT  assets  in  trust  for  the  benefit  of  the  unit  holders  in accordance with the trust deed and these regulations.
(2) The Trustee shall enter into an investment  management agreement  with  the manager on behalf of the REIT.
(3) The trustee shall oversee activities of the manager in the interest of the unit holders, ensure that the manager complies with regulation 10 and shall obtain compliance certificate from the manager in the form as may be specified on a quarterly basis.
(4)  The  trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  manager  complies  with  the  reporting  and  disclosures requirements in these regulations and in case of any delay or discrepancy, require the manager to rectify the same on an urgent basis.
(5) The trustee shall review the transactions carried out between the manager and its associates and  where  the  manager  has  advised  that  there  may  be  a  conflict  of  interest,  shall  obtain confirmation  from  a  practising  chartered  accountant  59[or  a  valuer,  as  applicable,]  that  such transaction is on arm's length basis.
(6)  The  trustee  shall  periodically  review  the  status  of  unit  holders'  complaints  and  their redressal undertaken by the manager.
(7) The trustee shall make distributions in accordance with sub-regulation (16) of regulation 18 and ensure that the manager makes timely declaration of distributions to the unit holders.
(8) The trustee may require the manager to set up such systems and submit such reports to the trustees, as may be necessary for effective monitoring of the performance and functioning of the REIT.
(9) The trustee shall ensure that subscription amount is kept in a separate bank account in name of the REIT and is only utilized for adjustment against allotment of units or refund of money to the applicants till the time such units are listed.
(10) The trustee shall ensure that the remuneration of the valuer is not linked to or based on the value of the asset being valued.
(11)  The  trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  manager  convenes  meetings  of  the  unit  holders  in accordance with these regulations and oversee the voting by unitholders and declare outcome of the voting. 17
(12) The trustee may take up with the Board or with the designated stock exchange, any matter which has been approved in an annual meeting or special meeting, if the matter requires such action.
(13) In case of any change in manager due to removal or otherwise,- (a)  prior  to  such  change,  the  trustee  shall  obtain  approval  from  unit  holders  in accordance with regulation 22 and approval from the Board; (b) the  trustee  shall  appoint  the  new  manager  within  three  months  from  the  date  of termination of the earlier investment management agreement; (c)  the previous manager shall continue to act as such at the discretion of trustee till such time as new manager is appointed; (d) the trustee shall ensure that the new manager shall stand substituted as a party in all the documents to which the earlier manager was a party; (e)  the trustee shall ensure that the earlier manager continues to be liable for all its acts of omissions and commissions notwithstanding such termination.
(14) The trustee shall obtain prior approval from the unit holders in accordance with regulation 22 and from the Board in case of change in control of the manager.
(15) The trustee  60[of the REIT” shall be substituted] shall not invest in units of the REIT in which it is designated as the trustee.
(16) The trustee shall ensure that the activity of the REIT is being operated in accordance with the provisions of the trust deed, these regulations, the offer document and if any discrepancy is noticed, shall inform the same to the Board immediately in writing.
(17)  The  trustee  shall  provide  to  the  Board  and  to  the  designated  stock  exchange  such information as may be sought by the Board or by the designated stock exchange pertaining to the activity of the REIT.
(18) The trustee shall immediately inform to the Board in case any act which is detrimental to the interest of the unit holders is noted. Rights and responsibilities of manager.
10. (1) The manager shall make the investment decisions with respect to the underlying assets of the REIT including any further investment or divestment of the assets.
(2) The manager shall ensure that the real estate assets of the REIT or 61[holdco and/or] SPV have proper legal and marketable titles and that all the material contracts including rental or lease agreements entered into on behalf of REITs or  62[holdco and/or] SPV are legal, valid, binding and enforceable by and on behalf of the REIT or 63[holdco and/or] SPV.
(3) The manager shall ensure that the investments made by the REIT are in accordance with the  investment  conditions  specified  in  regulation  18  and  in  accordance  with  the  investment strategy of the REIT.
(4) The manager shall undertake management of the REIT assets including lease management, maintenance of the assets, regular structural audits, regular safety audits, etc. either directly or through the appointment and supervision of appropriate agents.
(5) The manager, in consultation with trustee, shall appoint the valuer(s), auditor, registrar and transfer agent, merchant banker, custodian and any other intermediary or service provider or agent  for  managing  the  assets  of  the  REIT  or  for  offer  and  listing  of  its  units  or  any  other activity pertaining to the REIT in a timely manner and in accordance with these regulations.
(6) The manager shall appoint an auditor for a period of not more than five consecutive years: Provided that the auditor, not being an individual, may be reappointed for a period of another five consecutive years, subject to approval of unit-holders in the annual meeting.
(7) The manager shall arrange for adequate insurance coverage for the real estate assets of the REIT: Provided that in case of assets held by  64[holdco and/or] SPV, the manager shall ensure that real estate assets are adequately insured.
(8) If the REIT invests in under-construction properties as per these regulations, the manager- (a)  may  undertake  the  development  of  the  properties,  either  directly  or  through  the SPV, or appoint any other person for development of such properties; and 19 (b) shall oversee the progress of development, approval status and other aspects of the properties upto its completion.
(9) The manager shall ensure that it has adequate infrastructure and sufficient key personnel with adequate experience and qualification to undertake management of the REIT at all times.
(10) The manager 65[and the merchant banker(s) shall] shall be responsible for,- (a)  filing  66[***] offer document with the Board and the  designated stock exchange within the specified time period; (b) obtaining in-principle approval 67[and final listing and trading approvals] from the designated stock exchange; (c)  dealing  with  all  matters  relating  to  issue  and  listing  of  the  units  of  the  REIT  as specified in Chapter IV.
(11)  The  manager  68[and  the  merchant  banker(s),]  shall  ensure  that  disclosures  made  in  the offer document or any other document as may be specified by the Board contain material, true, correct and adequate disclosures and are in accordance with these regulations and guidelines or circulars issued thereunder.
(12) The manager shall declare distributions to the unit holders in accordance with the sub- regulation (16) of regulation 18.
(13)  The  manager  shall  ensure  adequate  and  timely  redressal  of  all  unit  holders'  grievances pertaining to activities of the REIT.
(14)  The    manager  shall  ensure  that  the  disclosures  to  the  unit  holders,  Board,  trustees  and designated stock exchange are adequate, timely and in accordance with these regulations and guidelines or circulars issued thereunder.
(15) The manager shall provide to the Board and to the designated stock exchanges any such information as may be sought by the Board or the designated stock exchange pertaining to the activities of the REIT. 66 Omitted “the draft and final”by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016,
(16) The manager shall ensure that adequate controls are in place to ensure segregation of its activity as manager of the REIT from its other activities.
(17)  The  manager  or  its  associates  shall  not  obtain  any  commission  or  rebate  or  any  other remuneration, by whatever name called, arising out of transactions pertaining to the REIT other than as specified in the offer document or any other document as may be specified by the Board for the purpose of issue of units.
(18) The manager shall submit to the trustee,- (a)  quarterly  reports  on  the  activities  of  the  REIT  including  receipts  for  all  funds received  by  it  and  for  all  payments  made,  position  on  compliance  with  these regulations,  specifically  including  compliance  with  regulations  18,19  and  20, performance report, status of development of under-construction properties, within thirty days of end of such quarter; (b) valuation  reports  as  required  under  these  regulations  within  fifteen  days  of  the receipt of the valuation report from the valuer; (c)  decision to acquire or sell or develop any property or expand existing completed properties along with rationale for the same; (d) details  of  any  action  which  requires  approval  from  the  unit  holders  as  required under the regulations; (e)  details  of  any  other  material  fact  including  change  of  its  directors,  any  legal proceedings that may have a significant bearing on the activity of the REIT within seven working days of such action.
(19) In case the manager fails to timely submit to the trustee information or reports as specified under sub-regulation (18) of this regulation or sub-regulation (8) of regulation 9, the trustee shall intimate the same to the Board and the Board may take action, as it deems fit.
(20) The manager shall coordinate with trustee, as may be necessary, with respect to operations of the REIT.
(21) The manager shall ensure that the valuation of the REIT assets is done by the valuer(s) in accordance with regulation 21. 21
(22) The manager shall ensure that computation of NAV of the REIT is based on the valuation done by the valuer and is declared no later than fifteen days from the date of valuation  69[ to the  stock  exchange(s)]  and  such  computation  shall  be  done  and  declared  not  less  than  once every six months.
(23) The manager shall ensure that the audit of accounts of the REIT by the auditor is done not less  than  70[  once  in  a  year]  and  such  report  is  submitted  to  the  designated  stock  exchange within 71[sixty] days of end of such financial year ending March 31st 72[***].
(24) The manager may appoint a custodian in order to provide such custodial services as may be authorised by the trustees and oversee activities of such custodian.
(25)  The  manager  shall  place,  before  its  board  of  directors  in  the  case  of  a  company  or  the governing board in case of an LLP, a report on activity and performance of the REIT every three months.
(26)  The  manager  shall  designate  an  employee  or  director  as  the  compliance  officer  for monitoring of compliance with these regulations and circulars issued thereunder and intimating the Board in case of any violation.
(27) The manager shall convene meetings of the unit holders in accordance with regulation 22 and maintain records pertaining to the meetings in accordance with regulation 26.
(28) The manager shall ensure the compliance with laws, as may be applicable, of the State or the local body with respect to the activity of the REIT including local building laws.
(29)  The  manager  shall  ensure  that  all  activities  of  management  of  assets  of  the  REIT  and activities of the intermediaries or agents or service providers appointed by the manager are in accordance with these regulations and circulars issued thereunder. Rights and responsibilities of sponsor(s)73[and sponsor group(s)].
11. (1) The sponsor(s) 74[and sponsor group(s)] shall set up the REIT and appoint the trustee of the REIT.
(2) The sponsor(s) 75[and sponsor group(s)] shall transfer or undertake to transfer, subject to a binding agreement and adequate disclosures in  the  initial  offer  76[document],  77[their] entire shareholding or interest 78[and rights] in the 79[holdco and/or] SPV or entire ownership of the real estate assets to the REIT prior to allotment of units of the REIT to the applicants: Provided that this shall not apply to the extent of any mandatory holding of shares or interest 80[and  rights]  in  the  81[holdco  and/or]  SPV  by  the  sponsor(s)  82[and  sponsor  group(s)]  as required 83[under] any Act or regulations or circulars or guidelines of government or regulatory authority as specified from time to time.
(3) With respect to holding of units in the REIT, 84[***]- (a) 85[the sponsor(s) and sponsor group(s) shall collectively] hold a minimum of twenty five percent. of the total units of the REIT after initial offer on a post-issue basis: Provided that the minimum sponsor86[(s) and sponsor group(s)] holding specified in  this  clause  shall  be  held  for  a  period  of  atleast  three  years  from  the  date  of listing of such units: Provided  further  that  any  holding  of  the  sponsor  87[(s)  and  sponsor  group(s)] exceeding  the  minimum  holding  as  specified  in  this  clause,  shall  be  held  for  a period of atleast one year from the date of listing of such units; (b) 88[***]; (c) 89[***].
(4) 90[***]
(5) 91[***] Rights and responsibilities of the valuer.
12. The valuer(s) shall comply with the following conditions at all times- (a)  The valuer(s) shall ensure that the valuation of the REIT assets is impartial, true and fair and is in accordance with regulation 21; (b) The  valuer(s)    shall  ensure  adequate  and  robust  internal  controls  to  ensure  the integrity of its valuation reports;
16.06.2020. Prior to its omission, the clause read as under : “(b) [the sponsor(s) and sponsor group(s)] together hold not less than fifteen per cent. of the outstanding units of the listed REIT at all times;”
16.06.2020. Prior to its omission, the clause read as under : “ (c) [each of the sponsor] individually  [***]  [shall] hold not less than five per cent. of the outstanding units of the listed REIT at all times;”
16.06.2020. Prior to its omission, the sub-regulation read as under :
“(4) If the sponsor(s)  [and sponsor group(s)] propose(s) to sell its units below the limit specified in clauses (b) or (c) of sub-regulation (3) of this regulation- such units shall be sold only after a period of three years from the date of listing of the units; (a) prior to sale of such units, the sponsor(s)  [ and sponsor group(s)] shall arrange for another person(s) or (b) entity(ies) to act as the re-designated sponsor(s) where the re-designated sponsor  shall satisfy the eligibility norms for the sponsor as specified under  [regulation 4]: Provided that such units may also be sold to an existing sponsor; (c) The  [***]proposed redesignated sponsor shall obtain approval from the unit holders or  provide option to exit to the unit holders in accordance with guidelines as may be specified: Provided that this clause shall not apply where the units are proposed to be sold to an existing sponsor [or member of sponsor group].”
16.06.2020. Prior to its omission, the sub-regulation read as under :
“(5)  If  re-designated  sponsor(s)  propose(s)  to  sell  its  units  to  any  another  person,  conditions  specified  under clauses (b), and (c) of sub-regulation (4) shall be complied with.” 24 (c)  The  valuer(s)    shall  ensure  that  it  has  sufficient  key  personnel  with  adequate experience and qualification to perform property valuations at all times; (d) The valuer(s) shall ensure that it has sufficient financial resources to  enable it to conduct its business effectively and meet its liabilities; (e)  The valuer(s) and any of its employees involved in valuing of the assets of the REIT, shall not,- (i)  invest in units of the REIT or in the assets being valued; and (ii) sell the assets or units of REITs held prior to being appointed as the valuer, till the time such person is designated as valuer of such REIT and not less than six months after ceasing to be valuer of the REIT; (f)  The valuer(s)  shall conduct the valuation of the REIT assets with transparency and fairness  and  shall  render,  at  all  times,  high  standards  of  service,  exercise  due diligence, ensure proper care and exercise independent professional judgment; (g) The  valuer(s)    shall  act  with  independence,  objectivity  and  impartiality  in performing the valuation; (h) The  valuer(s)  shall  discharge  its  duties  towards  the  REIT  in  an  efficient  and competent manner, utilizing his knowledge, skills and experience in best possible way to complete given assignment; (i)  The valuer(s) shall not accept remuneration, in any form, for performing a valuation of  the  REIT  assets  from  any  person  other  than  the  REIT  or  its  authorized representative; (j)  The valuer(s) shall before accepting any assignment,  92[from any related party to the REIT, shall] disclose to the REIT any direct or indirect consideration which the valuer may have in respect of such assignment; (k) The valuer shall disclose to the trustee, any pending business transactions, contracts under  negotiation  and  other  arrangements  with  the  manager  or  any  other  party whom the REIT is contracting with and any other factors that may interfere with the  valuer’s  ability  to  give  an  independent  and  professional  valuation  of  the property; 25 (l)  The  valuer(s)  shall  not  make  false,  misleading  or  exaggerated  claims  in  order  to secure assignments; (m) The valuer(s) shall not provide misleading valuation, either by providing incorrect information or by withholding relevant information; (n) The valuer(s) shall not accept an assignment that includes reporting of the outcome based on predetermined opinions and conclusions required by the REIT; (o) The valuer(s) shall, prior to performing a valuation, acquaint itself  with all laws or regulations relevant to such valuation. Rights and responsibilities of the auditor.
13. (1) The auditor shall conduct audit of the accounts of the REIT and prepare the audit report based on the accounts examined by him and after taking into account the relevant accounting and auditing standards, as may be specified by the Board.
(2) The auditor shall, to the best of his information and knowledge, ensure that the accounts and financial statements, including profit or loss and cash flow for the period and such other matters as may be specified, give a true and fair view of the state of the affairs.
(3) The auditor shall have a right of access at all times to the books of accounts and vouchers pertaining to activities of the REIT.
(4)  The  auditor  shall  have  a  right  to  require  such  information  and  explanation  pertaining  to activities of the REIT as he may consider necessary for the performance of his duties as auditor from the employees of REIT or parties to the REIT or  93[holdco or] SPV or any other person in possession of such information. CHAPTER IV ISSUE AND LISTING OF UNITS Issue and allotment of units.
14. (1) A REIT shall make an initial offer of its units by way of public issue only. 26
(2) No initial offer of units by the REIT shall be made unless,- (a)  the REIT is registered with the Board under these regulations; (b) the value of 94[the REIT assets] is not less than five hundred crore rupees; of REIT in the underlying assets or 95[] SPVs; 96[(ba)  the  minimum  number  of  unit  holders  other  than  sponsor(s),  its  related parties and its associates  forming part of public shall be not less than two hundred;] 97[(bb) maximum subscription from any investor other than sponsor(s), its related parties  and  its  associates  shall  not  be  more  than  25  percent  of  the  total  unit capital;] (c)  98[***] (d) the offer size is not less than two hundred and fifty crore rupees: Provided that the requirement of ownership of assets under clause (b) and size of REIT under  clause  (d)  may  be  complied  99[at  any  point  of  time  before  allotment  of  units  in accordance with offer document/placement memorandum] subject to a binding agreement with the relevant party(ies) that 100[such] requirements shall be fulfilled prior to 101[such] allotment  of  units102[and],  a  declaration  to  the  Board  and  103[to]  the  designated  stock exchanges  to  that  effect  and  adequate  disclosures  in  this  regard  in  the  104[***]  offer document. 105[(2A) For an REIT raising funds through an initial offer, the units proposed to be offered to the public through such initial offer (a) shall be not less than twenty five per cent. of the total of the outstanding units of the REIT and the units being offered by way of the offer document, if the post issue capital of the REIT calculated at offer price is less than rupees one thousand six hundred crore: Provided  that  the  requirement  at  sub-clause  (a)  shall  be  complied  along  with  the requirement under Regulation 14 (2)(d) of the REIT Regulations. (b) shall be of the value of at least Rs 400 crore, if the post issue capital of the REIT calculated at offer price is equal to or more than rupees one thousand six hundred crore and less than rupees four thousand crore; (c) shall be not less than ten per cent. of the total of the outstanding units of the REIT and the units being offered by way of the offer document, if the post issue capital of the REIT calculated at offer price is equal to or more than rupees four thousand crore: Provided that any units offered to sponsor or the manager or their related parties or their associates shall not be counted towards units offered to the public: Provided further that any listed REIT which has public holding below twenty five per cent on account of sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) above, such REIT shall increase its public holding to  at  least  twenty  five  per  cent,  within  a  period  of  three  years  from  the  date  of  listing pursuant to initial offer.]
(3) Any subsequent issue of units by the REIT may be by way of follow-on offer, preferential allotment, qualified institutional placement, rights issue, bonus issue, offer for sale or any other mechanism and in the manner as may be specified by the Board.
(4) REIT, through the 106[merchant banker], shall file a draft offer document 107[along with the fee as specified in Schedule II,] with the designated stock exchange(s) and the Board, not less than  108[thirty]  working  days  before  filing  the    109[***]  offer  document  with  the  designated stock exchange 110[and the Board].
(5) The draft offer document filed with the Board shall be made public, for comments, if any, 111[***] by hosting it on the websites of the Board, designated stock exchanges and merchant bankers associated with the issue 112[, for a period of not less than twenty one days].
(6)  The  113[draft  offer  document  and/  or  offer  document]  shall  be  accompanied  by  a  due diligence certificate signed by the 114[***] lead merchant banker.
(7) The Board may communicate its comments to the lead merchant banker and, in the interest of investors, may require the lead merchant banker to carry out such modifications in the draft offer document as it deems fit.
(8) The lead merchant banker shall ensure that all comments received from the Board on the draft offer document are suitably taken into account prior to the filing of the offer document with the designated stock exchanges.
(9) In case no  115[observations] are  116[issued] by the Board  117[on] the draft offer document within twenty one  working days from the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the lead merchant bankers or manager, the REIT may 118[file] the 119[***] offer document or follow-on offer document 120[with the Board and the exchange(s)]: 121[***]
(10) The 122[***] offer document shall be filed with the designated stock exchanges and the Board not less than five working days before opening of the offer 123[***].
(11) The initial offer or follow-on offer 124[or rights issue] shall be made by the REIT within a period of not more than 125[one year] from the date of 126[***] issuance of observations by the Board 127[***]: Provided that if the initial offer or follow-on offer  128[or rights issue] is not made within the specified time period, a fresh 129[draft] offer document shall be filed. 130[Provided further that the REIT shall not be required to file draft offer  document  with  the Board  in  case  of  a  fast  track  rights  issue, subject to the fulfillment of the conditions as specified by the Board from time to time.]
(12) The REIT may invite for subscriptions and allot units to any person, whether resident or foreign: Provided that in case of foreign investors, such investment shall be subject to guidelines as may be specified by Reserve Bank of India and the government from time to time.
(13)  The  application  for  subscription  shall  be  accompanied  by  a  statement  containing  the abridged version of the offer document, detailing the risk factors and summary of the terms of issue.
131[(14)  The  minimum  subscription  from  any  investor  in  initial  and/or  public  offer  shall  be rupees fifty thousand.]
(15) Initial offer and follow-on offer shall not be open for subscription for a period of more than thirty days.
(16) In case of over-subscriptions, the REIT shall allot units to the applicants on a proportionate basis rounded off to the nearest integer subject to minimum subscription amount per subscriber as specified in sub-regulation (14).
(17) The REIT shall allot units or refund application money, as the case may be, within twelve working days from the date of closing of the issue.
(18) The REIT shall issue units only in dematerialized form to all the applicants.
(19) The price of REIT units issued by way of public  issue shall be determined through the book building process or any other process in accordance with the circulars or guidelines issued by the Board and in the manner as may be specified by the Board.
(20) The REIT shall refund money, - (a)  to  all  applicants  in  case  it  fails  to  collect  subscription  amount  of  exceeding 132[ninety]  per  cent.  of  the  133[fresh]  issue  size  as  specified  in  the  134[***]  offer document 135[***]; (b) to  applicants  to  the extent  of oversubscription in case  the moneys received is  in excess  of  the  extent  of  over-subscription  as  specified  in  the  136[***]  offer document: Provided that right to retain such over subscription cannot exceed twenty five per cent. of the issue size; 137[Provided  further,  that  the  offer  document  shall  contain  adequate  disclosures towards the utilisation of such oversubscription proceeds, if any, and such proceeds retained  on  account  of  oversubscription  shall  not  be  utilised  towards  general purposes.] (c)  to all applicants in case the number of subscribers to the initial offer forming part of the public is less than two hundred.
(21) If the manager fails to allot, or list the units, or refund the money within the specified time, then the manager shall pay interest to the unit holders at fifteen per cent. per annum, till such allotment/  listing/refund  and  such  interest  shall  not  be  recovered  in  the  form  of  fees  or  any other form payable to the manager by the REIT.
(22) Units may be offered for sale to public,- (a) if such units have been held by the existing unitholders for a period of at least one year prior to the filing of draft offer document with the Board: Provided that the holding period for the equity shares 138[, compulsorily convertible securities (from the date such securities are fully paid-up)] or partnership interest in the 139[holdco and/or] SPV against which such units have been received shall be considered for the purpose of calculation of one year period referred in this sub- regulation: 140[Provided  further  that  the  compulsorily  convertible  securities,  whose  holding period has been included for the purpose of calculation for offer for sale, shall be converted to equity shares of the holdco or SPV, prior to filing of offer document.] (b) subject to other circulars or guidelines as may be specified by the Board in this regard. 141[(22A) The amount for general purposes, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the draft offer document filed with the Board, shall not exceed Ten per cent of the amount raised by the REIT by issuance of units.]
(23) If the REIT fails to make its initial offer within three years from the date of registration with the Board, it shall surrender its certificate of registration to the Board and cease to operate as a REIT: Provided that the Board, if it deems fit, may extend the period by another one year: Provided further that the REIT may later re-apply for registration, if it so desires.
(24) The Board may specify by issue of guidelines or circulars any other requirements, as it deems fit, pertaining to issue and allotment of units by a REIT. Offer document and advertisements.
15.  (1)  The  Offer  document  of  the  REIT  shall  contain  material,  true,  correct  and  adequate disclosures to enable the investors to make an informed decision.
(2)  Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the offer document shall- (a)  include all information as specified in  Schedule III to these regulations or as specified in any circulars or guidelines issued by the Board in this regard; (b) not be misleading and not contain any untrue statements or mis-statements; (c)  not provide for any guaranteed returns to the investors; (d) include such other disclosures as may be specified by the Board.
(3) Any  advertisement  material  relating  to  any  issue  of  units  of  the  REIT  shall  not  be misleading and shall not contain anything extraneous to the contents of the offer document.
(4) If an advertisement contains positive highlights, it shall also contain risk factors with equal importance in all aspects including print size. 33
(5) The advertisements shall be in accordance with the offer document and any circulars or guidelines as may be specified by the Board in this regard. Listing and trading of units.
16.  (1)  After  the  initial  offer  it  shall  be  mandatory  for  all  units  of  REITs  to  be  listed  on  a recognized  stock  exchange  having  nationwide  trading  terminals  within  a  period  of  twelve working days from the date of closure of the offer.
(2) The listing of the units of the REIT shall be in accordance with the listing agreement entered into between the REIT and the designated stock exchange. 142[(2A)  In  the  event  of  non-receipt  of  listing  permission  from  the  stock  exchange(s)  or withdrawal of Observation Letter issued by the Board, wherever applicable, the units shall not be eligible for listing and the REIT shall be liable to refund the subscription monies, if any, to the respective allottees immediately alongwith interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum from the date of allotment.]
(3) The units of the REIT listed in  recognized stock exchanges shall be traded,  cleared  and settled in accordance with the bye-laws of concerned stock exchanges and such conditions as may be specified by the Board.
(4) Trading lot for the purpose of trading of units of the REIT shall 143[consist of 100 units].
(5)  The REIT shall redeem units only by way of a buy-back or at the time of delisting of units.
(6) The units of REIT shall be remain listed on the designated stock exchange unless delisted under regulation 17.
(7) The minimum public holding for the units of the listed REIT shall be  144[ in accordance with the sub-regulation (2A) of Regulation 14], failing which action may be taken as may be specified by the Board and by the designated stock exchange including delisting of units under regulation 17: Provided that in case of breach of the conditions specified in this sub-regulation, the trustee may  provide  a  period  of  six  months  to  the  manager  to  rectify  the  same,  failing  which  the manager shall apply for delisting under Regulation 17.
(8)  Any person other than the sponsor(s) holding units of the REIT prior to initial offer shall hold the units for a period of not less than one year from the date of listing of the units subject to circulars or guidelines as may be specified by the Board.
(9)  The Board and designated stock exchanges may specify any other requirements pertaining to listing and trading of units of the REIT by issuance of guidelines or circulars. Delisting of units.
17.  (1)  The  manager  shall  apply  for  delisting  of  units  of  the  REIT  to  the  Board  and  the designated stock exchanges if,- (a)  the public holding falls below the specified limit under sub-regulation (7) of regulation 16; (b) 145[***] (c)  if there are no projects or assets  remaining under the REIT for a period exceeding six months and REIT does not propose to invest in any project in future: Provided that, the period may be extended by further six months, with the approval of unit holders in the manner as specified in regulation 22; (d) the Board or the designated stock exchanges require such delisting for violation of the listing agreement or these regulations or the Act; (e)  the sponsor(s) or trustee requests such delisting and such request has been approved by unit holders in accordance with sub-regulation (6) of regulation 22; (f)  unit holders apply for such delisting in accordance with regulation 22; (g) the Board or the designated stock exchanges require such delisting for violation of the listing agreement, these regulations or the Act or in the interest of the unit holders.
(2)  The Board and the designated stock exchanges may consider such application for approval or rejection as may be appropriate in the interest of the unit holders.
(3)    The  Board,  instead  of  requiring  delisting  of  the  units,  if  it  deems  fit,    may  provide additional time to the REIT or parties to the REIT to comply with regulations.
(4)  The Board may reject the application for delisting and take any other action, as it deems fit, under these regulations or the Act for violation of the listing agreement or these regulations or the Act.
(5)  The procedure for delisting of units of REIT including provision of exit option to the unit holders shall be in accordance with the listing agreement and in accordance with procedure as may be specified by the Board and by the designated stock exchanges from time to time.
(6)  The Board may require the REIT to wind up and sell its assets in order to redeem units of the unit holders for the purpose of delisting of units and the Board may through circulars or guidelines specify the manner of such winding up or sale.
(7)  After delisting of its units, the REIT shall surrender its certificate of  registration to  the Board and shall no longer undertake activity of a REIT: Provided that the REIT and parties to the REIT shall continue to be liable for all their acts of omissions  and  commissions  with  respect  to  activities  of  the  REIT  notwithstanding  such surrender. CHAPTER V INVESTMENT CONDITIONS, RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS, BORROWING AND VALUATION OF ASSETS Investment conditions and distribution policy.
18. (1) The Investment  by a REIT shall only be in  146[holdco and/or] SPVs or properties or securities  or  TDR  in  India  in  accordance  with  these  regulations  and  in  accordance  with  the investment strategy as detailed in the offer document as may be amended subsequently.
(2)  The  REIT  shall  not  invest  in  vacant  land  or  agricultural  land  or  mortgages  other  than mortgage backed securities: 36 Provided that this shall not apply to any land which is contiguous and extension of an existing project being implemented in stages.
(3) The REIT may invest in properties through SPVs subject to the following,- (a)  no  other  shareholder  or  partner  of  the  SPV  shall  147[exercise]  any  rights  that prevents the REIT from complying with the provisions of these regulations 148[and an agreement 149[has been] entered into with such shareholders or partners to that effect prior to investment in the SPV]: 150[Provided  that  the  shareholders’  agreement  or  partnership  agreement  shall provide for an  appropriate  mechanism  for  resolution  of  disputes  between  the REIT  and  the other shareholders or partners in the SPV: Provided  further  that  the  provisions  of  these  regulations  shall  prevail  in  case  of inconsistencies between such agreement(s) and the obligations cast upon a REIT under these regulations.] 151[(b)  the  manager,  in  consultation  with  the  trustee,  shall  appoint  atleast  such number of nominees on the board of directors or the governing board of such SPVs, as applicable, which are in proportion to the shareholding or holding interest of the REIT in the SPV;] (c)  the manager shall ensure that in every meeting including annual general meeting of the SPV, the voting of the REIT is exercised 152[***]. 153[(3A) The REIT may invest in properties through holdco subject 154[to] the following,- (a) the ultimate holding interest of the REIT in the underlying SPV(s) is not less than twenty six per cent; (b) no other shareholder or partner of the holdco or the SPV(s) shall 155[exercise] any rights that prevent the REIT, the holdco or the SPV(s) from complying with the provisions of these regulations and an agreement 156[has been] entered into with such shareholders or partners to that effect prior to investment in the holdco and/or SPVs: 157[Provided  that  the  shareholders’  agreement  or  partnership  agreement  shall provide for an  appropriate  mechanism  for  resolution  of  disputes  between  the REIT  and  the other shareholders or partners in the holdco and/or SPV; Provided  further  that  the  provisions  of  these  regulations  shall  prevail  in  case  of inconsistencies between such agreement(s) and the obligations cast upon a REIT under these regulations.] 158[(c)    the  manager,  in  consultation  with  the  Trustee,  shall  appoint  atleast  such number of nominees on the board of directors or the governing board of the holdco and/or the SPV, which are in proportion to the shareholding or holding interest of the REIT/holdco in the SPV;] (d)  the  manager  shall  ensure  that  in  every  meeting  including  annual  general meeting of the holdco and/or SPV(s), the voting of the REIT is exercised;]
(4)  Not  less  than  eighty  per  cent.  of  value  of  the  REIT  assets  shall  be  invested  159[***]  in completed and rent 160[and/or income] generating properties subject to the following,- (a)  if the investment has been made through a 161[holdco and/or] SPV, whether by way of  equity  or  debt  or  equity  linked  instruments  or  partnership  interest,  only  the portion of direct investments in properties by such 162[ holdco and/or] SPVs shall be considered under this sub-regulation and the remaining portion shall be included under sub-regulation (5); (b) if any project is implemented in stages, the part of the project which is completed and  163[rent  and/or  income  generating]  shall  be  considered  under  this  sub- regulation  and the remaining portion including any contiguous land as specified under  proviso  to  sub-regulation  (2)  shall  be  included  under  clause  (a)  of    sub- regulation (5).
(5) Not more than twenty per cent. of value of the REIT assets shall be invested  164[***] in assets other than as provided in sub-regulation (4) and such other investment shall only be in,- (a)  properties, 165[whether directly or through a company or LLP,] 166[***] which are: (i)  under-construction properties which shall be held by the REIT for not less than three years after completion; (ii)  under-construction  properties  which  are  a  part  of  the  existing  income generating properties owned by the REIT which shall be held by the REIT for not less than three years after completion; (iii)  completed and not rent generating properties  which shall be held by the REIT for not less than three years from date of purchase; (b) listed or unlisted debt of companies or body corporate in real estate sector: Provided  that  this  shall  not  include  any  investment  made  in  debt  of  the 167[holdco and/or SPVs]; (c)  mortgage backed securities; (d) equity shares of companies 168[which are] listed on a recognized stock exchange in  India  which  derive  not  less  than  seventy  five  per  cent.  of  their  operating income  from  real  estate  activity  as  per  the  audited  accounts  of  the  previous financial year; 169[(da) unlisted equity shares of companies which derive not less than seventy five per  cent.  of  their  operating  income  from  real  estate  activity  as  per  the  audited accounts of the previous financial year: Provided  that  the  investments,  made  through  unlisted  equity  shares  of  a company,  in  under  construction  properties  and/or  completed  and  not  rent generating  properties,  shall  be  in  compliance  with  clause  (a)  of  this  sub- regulation.] (e)  government securities; (f)  unutilized FSI of a project where it has already made investment; (g) TDR acquired for the purpose of utilization with respect to a project where it has already made investment; (h) money market instruments or cash equivalents. 170[(5A) The investment conditions as specified at sub-regulation (4) and (5) of regulation 18 shall be complied at the time of Offer document and thereafter.]
(6)  Not  less  than  171[fifty  one]  per  cent.  of  the  172[consolidated]  revenues  of  the  REIT  173[, holdco] and the SPV, other than gains arising from disposal of properties, shall be, at all times, from rental, leasing and letting real estate assets or any other income incidental to the leasing of such assets. 174[***] 175[***]
(9) Conditions specified in sub-regulations (4), (5), (6), (7) and (8) shall  be monitored on a half-yearly basis and at the time of acquisition of an asset: Provided that if such conditions are breached on account of market movements of the price of the underlying assets or securities or change in tenants or  expiry of lease or sale of properties, the manager shall inform the same to the trustee and ensure that the conditions as specified in this regulation are satisfied within six months of such breach: Provided further that the period may be extended by another six months subject to approval from investors in accordance with regulation 22.
(10) A REIT shall hold any completed and rent generating property, whether directly or through 176[holdco or] SPV, for a period of not less than three years from the date of purchase of such property by the REIT or 177[holdco or] SPV.
(11) For any sale of property, whether by the REIT or  178[holdco or] the SPV or for sale of shares or interest in the SPV by the 179[holdco or] REIT exceeding ten per cent. of the value of REIT  assets  in  a  financial  year,  the  manager  shall  obtain  approval  from  the  unit  holders  in accordance with regulation 22.
(12) A REIT shall not invest in units of other REITs.
(13)  A  REIT  shall  not  undertake  lending  to  any  person  180[other  than  the  holding company/special purpose vehicle(s) in which the REIT has invested in, subject to disclosures specified in Schedule IV]: Provided that investment in debt securities shall not be considered as lending.
(14)  With  respect  to  investment  in  leasehold  properties,  the  manager  shall  consider  the remaining term of the lease, the objectives of the REIT, the lease profile of the REIT’s existing real estate assets and any other factors as may be relevant, prior to making such investment.
(15) In case of any co-investment with any person(s) in any transaction,- (a)  the  investment  by  the  other  person(s)  shall  not  be  at  terms  more  favourable  than those to the REIT; (b) the investment shall not provide any rights to the person(s) which shall prevent the REIT from complying with the provisions of these regulations; (c)  the  agreement  with  such  person(s)  shall  include  the  minimum  percentage  of distributable  cash  flows  that  will  be  distributed  and  entitlement  of  the  REIT  to receive not less than pro rata distributions and mode for resolution of any disputes between the REIT and the other person(s).
(16) With respect to distributions made by the REIT and the 181[holdco and/or] SPV,- (a)  not  less  than  ninety  per  cent.  of  net  distributable  cash  flows  of  the  SPV  shall  be distributed to the REIT 182[/holdco] in proportion of its holding in the SPV subject to  applicable  provisions  in  the  Companies  Act,  2013  or  the  Limited  Liability Partnership Act, 2008; 183[(aa) with regard to distribution of net distributable cash flows by the holdco to the REIT, subject to applicable provisions in the Companies Act, 2013 or the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008, the following shall be complied: (i) with respect to the cash flows received by the holdco from underlying SPVs, 100% of such cash flows received by the holdco shall be distributed to the REIT; and (ii) with respect to the cash flows generated by the holdco on its own, not less than 90% of such net distributable cash flows shall be distributed by the holdco to the REIT;] (b) not  less than  ninety per  cent. of net  distributable cash flows of the REIT shall be distributed to the unit holders; 42 (c)  such distributions shall be declared and made not less than once every six months in every financial year and shall be made not later than fifteen days from the date of such declaration; (d) if any property is sold by the REIT or 184[holdco or SPV or if the equity shares or interest in the holdco/SPV are sold by the REIT, then],- (i) if  the  REIT  proposes  to  reinvest  sale  proceeds,  if  any,  into  another property,  it  shall  not  be  required  to  distribute  any  sale  proceeds  from such sale to the unit holders; 185[***] (ii)  if the REIT 186[***] proposes not to invest the sales proceeds made into any  other  property,  187[within  a  period  of  1  year,]  it  shall  be  required  to distribute not less than ninety per cent. of the sales proceeds in accordance with clauses (a) 188[, (b), (c) and (d) of sub-regulation 16]; (e)  if the distributions are not made within fifteen days of declaration, then the manager shall be liable to  pay interest to the unit holders at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum  till the distribution is  made and such interest  shall not  be recovered in  the form of fees or any other form payable to the manager by the REIT.
(17) No schemes shall be launched under the REIT.
(18) The Board may specify any additional conditions for investments by the REIT as it deems fit. Related party transactions.
19. (1) All related party transactions shall be on an arms-length basis, in the best interest of the unit holders, consistent with the strategy and investment objectives of the REIT and shall be
30.11.2016 185 Omitted “and if the SPV proposes to reinvest sale proceeds, if any, into another property, it shall not be required to distribute any sale proceeds from such sale to the REIT;” by the SEBI (Real Estate Investment disclosed to the designated stock exchange and unit holders periodically in accordance with the listing agreement and these regulations.
(2) A REIT, subject to the conditions specified hereunder, may,- (a)   acquire assets from related parties; (b) sell assets or securities to related parties; (c)  lease assets to related parties; (d) lease assets from related parties; (e)  invest in securities issued by related parties; (f)  borrow from related parties.
(3) With respect to purchase or sale of properties 189[***] after initial offer,- (a)  two valuation reports from two different valuers, independent of each other, shall be obtained; (b) such valuers shall undertake a full valuation of the assets proposed to be purchased or sold as specified under regulation 21; (c)  Transactions for purchase of such assets shall be at a price not greater than, and transactions  for  sale  of  such  assets  shall  be  at  a  price  not  lesser  than,  190[one hundred  ten  percent  and  ninety  percent  of  the]  average  of  the  two  independent valuations 191[, respectively].
(4) In case of any related party transactions entered into prior to making the initial offer,- (a)  adequate disclosures to that effect shall be made in the initial offer document including a consolidated full valuation report of all such assets 192[***]; (b) the REIT shall enter into proper and valid agreements with such related parties at  the  price  or    interest  rate  or  rental  value  mentioned  in  the  initial  offer document; (c)  If the transactions are conditional upon the REIT receiving a minimum amount of subscription, adequate disclosures shall be made in the offer document and the agreements to that effect.
(5) In case of any related party transactions entered into after the initial offer,- (a)  adequate disclosures shall be made to the unit holders and to the designated stock exchanges; (b) in case,- (i) the total  value of all the related party transactions, in  a financial  year, pertaining  to  acquisition  or  sale  of  properties  193[,  whether  directly  or through holdco and/or SPVs,] or investments into securities exceeds ten per cent. of the value of REIT; or (ii)  the value of the funds borrowed from related parties, in a financial year, exceeds  ten  per  cent.  of  the  total  consolidated  borrowings  of  the  REIT 194[, holdco and/or SPVs]; approval  from  the unit holders shall be obtained  prior to  entering into any  such subsequent transaction with any related party; (c)  for the purpose of obtaining approval for such transactions, the manager shall obtain  approval  from  unit  holders  in  accordance  with  regulation  22  and request for such approval shall be accompanied by a transaction document.
(6) The disclosures in the offer document and transaction document shall include the following, as may be applicable,- (a)  identity  of  the  related  parties  and  their  relationship  with  the  REIT  or parties to the REIT; (b) nature  and  details  of  the  transactions  entered  into  or  proposed  to  be entered into with such related parties including description and location of assets; 45 (c)  the price or value of the assets or securities bought or sold or leased or proposed to be bought or sold or leased and if leased or proposed to be leased, value of the lease; (d) ready reckoner rate of the real estate asset being bought or sold: Provided that where such ready reckoner rate are not available, property tax assessment value  or similar published rates by Government authorities shall be disclosed; (e)  summary of the valuation report(s); (f)  the current and expected rental yield; (g) if  the  transactions  are  conditional  upon  the  REIT  receiving  a  stated amount of subscriptions, the minimum amount of such subscriptions  to be received; (h) amount of borrowing and rate of interest in case of borrowing from any related party; (i)  any other information that is required for the investor to take an informed decision.
(7) With respect to any properties leased to related parties to the REIT, both before and after initial offer, if,- (a)  such lease area exceeds twenty per cent. of the total area of the underlying assets; (b)  value of assets under such lease exceeds twenty per cent of the value of the total underlying assets; (c)  rental income obtained from such leased assets exceeds twenty per cent of the value of the rental income of all underlying assets, a  fairness  opinion  from  an  independent  valuer  shall  be  obtained  by  the  manager  and submitted to the trustee and approval of unitholders in accordance with regulation 22 shall be obtained.
(8) For any related party transaction requiring approval of the unit holders or proposed to be undertaken immediately after the initial offer, the agreement shall be entered into within six 46 months from date of close of initial offer or from date of approval of the unit holders, as the case may be: Provided that in case of the agreement is not entered into within such period, approval from the  unit  holders  may  be  sought  for  extension  for  another  six  months  in  accordance  with regulation 22 with the updated valuation report(s).
(9) Adequate disclosures of all related party transactions that have been entered into prior to the follow-on offer shall be made in the follow-on offer document.
(10) Transaction between two or more of the REITs with a common manager or sponsor shall be  deemed  to  be  related  party  transactions  for  each  of  the  REITs  and  provisions  of  this regulation shall apply: Provided that this sub-regulation shall also apply if the managers or sponsors of the REITs are different entities but are associates.
(11) With respect to any related party transaction, details of any fees or commissions received or to be received by  195[such] related party196[(ies)] shall be adequately disclosed to the unit holders and to the designated stock exchanges.
(12) No related party shall retain cash or other rebates from any property agent in consideration for referring transactions in REIT assets to the property agent.
(13) Where any of the related parties has an interest in a business which competes or is likely to compete, either directly or indirectly, with the activities of the REIT, the following details shall be disclosed in the offer document,- (a) details of the such business including an explanation as to how such business shall compete with the REIT; (b) a declaration that the related party shall perform its duty in relation to the REIT independent of its related business; (c) declaration  as  to  whether  any  acquisition  of  such  business  by  the  REIT  is intended and if so, details of the same thereof.
(14) Any arrangement or transaction or contract with any related party other than as included in this regulation shall be disclosed to the unit holders and to the designated stock exchanges. Borrowings and deferred payments.
20.  197[(1)  A  REIT,  whose  units  are  listed  on  a  recognized  stock  exchange,  may  issue  debt securities in the manner specified by the Board: Provided that such debt securities shall be listed on recognized stock exchange(s).]
198[(2)] The aggregate consolidated borrowings and deferred payments of the REIT 199[, holdco and/or the SPV(s),] net of cash and cash equivalents shall never exceed forty nine per cent. of the value of the REIT assets: Provided that such borrowings and deferred payments shall not include any refundable security deposits to tenants.
200[(3)]  If  the  aggregate  consolidated  borrowings  and  deferred  payments  of  the  REIT  201[, holdco and/or the SPV(s),] net of cash and cash equivalents exceed twenty five per cent. of the value of the REIT assets, for any further borrowing,- (a)  credit  rating  shall  be  obtained  from  a  credit  rating  agency  registered  with  the Board; and (b) approval of unit holders shall be obtained in the manner as specified in regulation
22. 202[(4)] If the conditions specified in sub-regulations (1) and (2) are breached on account of market movements of the price of the underlying assets or securities, the manager shall inform the same to the trustee and ensure that the conditions as specified in this regulation are satisfied within six months of such breach. Valuation of assets.
21. (1) The valuer shall not be an associate of the sponsor(s) or manager or trustee and shall have not less than five years of experience in valuation of real estate.
(2) Full valuation includes a detailed valuation of all assets by the valuer including physical inspection of every property by the valuer.
(3)  Full  valuation  report  shall  include  the  mandatory  minimum  disclosures  as  specified  in Schedule V to these regulations.
(4) A full valuation shall be conducted by the valuer atleast once in every financial year: Provided  that  such  full  valuation  shall  be  conducted  at  the  end  of  the  financial  year  ending March 31st within three months from the end of such year.
(5) A half yearly valuation of the REIT assets shall be conducted by the valuer for the half-year ending on September 30 for incorporating any key changes in the previous six months and such half  yearly valuation report shall be  prepared  within forty five days from  the date of end of such half year.
(6)  Valuation  reports  received  by  the  manager  shall  be  submitted  to  the  designated  stock exchange and unit holders within fifteen days from the receipt of such valuation reports.
(7) Prior to any issue of units to the public and any other issue of units as may be specified by the  Board,  the  valuer  shall  undertake  full  valuation  of  all  the  REIT  assets  and  include  a summary of the report in the offer document: Provided that such valuation report shall not be more than six months old at the time of such offer: Provided further that this shall not apply in cases where full valuation has been undertaken not more than six months prior to such issue and no material changes have occurred thereafter.
(8) For any transaction of purchase or sale of properties,203[ whether directly or through holdco and/or SPVs,]- (a)  if  the  transaction  is  a  related  party  transaction,  the  valuation  shall  be  in  accordance with regulation 19; (b) if the transaction is not a related party transaction,- (i)  a full valuation of the specific property shall be undertaken by the valuer; 49 (ii) if ,-
(1) in  case  of  a  purchase  transaction,  the  property  is  proposed  to  be purchased at  a value greater than one hundred and ten per cent. of the value of the property as assessed by the valuer;
(2) in case of a sale transaction, the property is proposed to be sold at  a value less than ninety per cent. of the value of the property as assessed by the valuer, approval of the unit holders shall be obtained in accordance with regulation 22.
(9)  No  valuer  shall  undertake  valuation  of  the  same  property  for  more  than  four  years consecutively: Provided that the valuer may be reappointed after a period of not less than two years from the date it ceases to be the valuer of the REIT. 204[***]
(11) In case of any material development that may have an impact on the valuation of the REIT assets, then manager shall require the valuer to undertake full valuation of the property under consideration within not more than two months from the date of such event and disclose the same to the trustee, investors and the Designated Stock Exchanges within fifteen days of such valuation.
(12)  The  valuer  shall  not  value  any  assets  in  which  it  has  either  been  involved  with  the acquisition or disposal within the last twelve months other than such cases where valuer was engaged by the REIT for such acquisition or disposal. CHAPTER VI RIGHTS OF UNIT HOLDERS, GENERAL OBLIGATIONS, DISCLOSURES AND REPORTING Prior to its omission, the sub-regulation read as follows:
“(10) Any valuation undertaken by any valuer shall abide by international valuation standards and valuation standards as may be specified by Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) for valuation of real estate assets: Provided that in case of any conflict, standards specified by ICAI shall prevail.” 50 Rights and meetings of unit holders.
22. (1) The unit holder shall have the rights to receive income or distributions as provided for in the Offer document or trust deed.
(2) With respect to any matter requiring approval of the unit holders,- (a)  a resolution shall be considered as passed when the votes cast by unit holders, so entitled  and  voting,  in  favour  of  the  resolution  exceed  a  certain  percentage,  as specified in this regulation, of the votes cast against; (b) the voting may also be done by postal ballot or electronic mode; (c)  a notice of not  less than  twenty one days either  in  writing or through  electronic mode shall be provided to the unit holders; (d) voting by any person who is a related party in such transaction as well as associates of such person(s) shall not be considered on the specific issue; (e)  manager  shall  be  responsible  for  all  the  activities  pertaining  to  conducting  of meeting of the unit holders, subject to overseeing by the trustee: Provided  that  in  respect  of  issues  pertaining  to  the  manager  such  as  change  in manager including removal of the manager or change in control of the manager, Trustee  shall  convene  and  handle  all  activities  pertaining  to  conduct  of  the meetings: Provided further that in respect of issues pertaining to the trustee such as change in the trustee, the trustee shall not be involved in any manner in the conduct of the meeting.
(3) An annual meeting of all unit holders shall be held not less than once a year within  one hundred and twenty days from the end of financial year and the time between two meetings shall not exceed fifteen months.
(4) With respect to the annual meeting of unit holders,- (a)  any information that is required to be disclosed to the unit holders and any issue that, in the ordinary course of business, may require approval of the unit holders may be taken up in the meeting including,- (i) latest annual accounts and performance of the REIT; 51 (ii) approval of auditor and fees of such auditor, as may be required; (iii) latest valuation reports; (iv) (v) appointment of valuer, as may be required; any  other  issue  including  special  issues  as  specified  under  sub- regulation (6); (b) for  any  issue  taken  up  in  such  meetings  which  require  approval  from  the  unit holders, votes cast in favour of the resolution shall 205[be more than] the votes cast against the resolution.
(5) In case of,- (a)  any approval from unit holders required under regulation 18, 19 and 21; (b) any transaction, other than any borrowing, value of which is equal to or greater than twenty five per cent. of the REIT assets; (c)  any borrowing in excess of specified limit as required under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 20; (d) any issue of units after initial offer by the REIT, in whatever form, other than any  issue  of  units  which  may  be  considered  by  the  Board  under  sub- regulation(6); (e)  increasing  period  for  compliance  with  investment  conditions  to  one  year  in accordance with proviso to sub-regulation (9) of regulation 18; (f)  any  issue,  in  the  ordinary  course  of  business,  which  in  the  opinion  of  the sponsor(s) or trustee or manager, is material and requires approval of the unit holders, if any; 206[(fa) de-classification of the status of sponsor;] (g) any  issue  for  which  the  Board  or  the  designated  stock  exchange  requires approval under this sub-regulation, approval from unitholders shall be required where the votes cast in favour of the resolution shall be 207[more than] the votes cast against the resolution.
(6) In case of ,- (a)  any  change  in  manager  including  removal  of  the  manager  or  change  in control of the manager; (b) any material change in investment strategy or any change in the management fees of the REIT; (c)  the sponsor(s) or manager proposing to seek delisting of units of the REIT; (d) 208[***] (e)  any issue, not in the ordinary course of business, which in the opinion of the sponsor(s) or manager or trustee requires approval of the unit holders; (f)  any  issue  for  which  the  Board  or  the  designated  stock  exchanges  requires approval under this sub-regulation; (g) any issue taken up on request of the unit holders including: (i) removal of the manager and appointment of another manager to the REIT; (ii) removal  of  the  auditor  and  appointment  of  another  auditor  to  the REIT; (iii) removal  of  the  valuer  and  appointment  of  another  valuer  to  the REIT; (iv)  delisting  of  the  REIT  if  the  unit  holders  have  sufficient  reason  to believe  that  such  delisting  would  act  in  the  interest  of  the  unit holders; (v) any issue which the unit holders have sufficient  reason to  believe that acts detrimental to the interest of the unit holders; (vi)  change  in  the  trustee  if  the  unit  holders  have  sufficient  reason  to believe that acts of such trustee is detrimental to the interest of the unit holders, approval  from  unit  holders  shall  be  required  where  the  votes  cast  in  favour  of  the resolution  shall  be  not  less  than  209[one  and  half]  times  the  votes  cast  against  the resolution. 210[***] 211[(6A) No person, other than sponsor(s), its related parties and its associates, shall acquire units of a REIT which taken together with units held by him and by persons acting in concert with  him in  such REIT,  exceeds twenty-five per  cent  of the value of outstanding REIT units unless approval from seventy five per cent. of the unit holders by value excluding the value of units held by parties related to the transaction, is obtained: Provided that if the required approval is not received, the person acquiring the units shall provide an exit option to the dissenting unit holders to the extent and in the manner as may be specified by the Board]
(7) With respect to the right(s) of the unit holders under clause (g) of sub-regulation (6),- (a)  not less than twenty five per cent. of the unit holders by value, other than any  party  related  to  the  transactions  and  its  associates,  shall  apply,  in writing, to the trustee for the purpose; (b) on receipt of such application, the Trustee shall  require the manager  to place the issue for voting in the manner as specified in these regulations; (c)  with respect to sub-clause (vi) of clause (g) of sub-regulation (6) , not less than sixty per cent. of the unit holders by value shall apply, in writing, to the manager for the purpose.
(8) In case of any change in sponsor or 212[inducted] sponsor or change in control of sponsor or 213[inducted] sponsor,- (a)  214[prior to such changes, approval from seventy-five per cent of the unit holders by value excluding the value of units held by parties related to the transaction shall be obtained;] (b)  if such change does not receive the required approval,- (i) in  case  of  change  of  sponsor  or  215[inducted]  sponsor,  the proposed  216[inducted]  sponsor  217[***]  shall  provide  the dissenting  unit  holders  an  option  to  exit  by  buying  their  units 218[in the manner specified by the Board]; 219[(ii) in case of change in control of the sponsor or inducted sponsor, the said sponsor or inducted sponsor shall provide the dissenting unit holders an option to exit by buying their units in the manner as specified by the Board; any change due to entry of a new sponsor with or without exit of an existing sponsor.] (c)  if on account of such sale, the number of unit holders forming part of the public falls below 220[as required under sub-regulation (2A) of Regulation 14] two hundred or below 221[ the trustee may provide a period of one year to the manager to rectify the same, failing which], the 222[manager] shall apply for delisting of the units of the REIT in accordance with regulation
17. Disclosures.
23. (1) The manager shall ensure that the disclosures in the offer document are in accordance with the Schedule III to these regulations and any circulars or guidelines issued by the Board in this regard.
(2) The manager shall submit an annual report to all unit holders of the REIT with respect to activities of the REIT, within three months from the end of the financial year.
(3) The manager shall submit a half-yearly report to all unit holders of the REIT with respect to  activities  of  the  REIT  within  forty  five  days  from  the  end  of  the  half  year  ending  on September 30th.
(4) Such annual and half yearly reports shall contain disclosures as specified under Schedule IV to these regulations.
(5)  The  manager  shall  disclose  to  the  designated  stock  exchanges  any  information  having bearing  on  the  operation  or  performance  of  the  REIT  as  well  as  price  sensitive  information which includes but is not restricted to the following,- (a)  acquisition or disposal of any properties, value of which exceeds five per cent. of value of the REIT assets; (b) additional borrowing, at level of 223[holdco or] SPV or the REIT, resulting in such borrowing exceeding five per cent. of the value of the REIT assets during the year; (c)  additional issue of units by the REIT; (d) details of any credit rating obtained by the REIT and any change in such rating; (e)  any issue which requires approval of the unit holders; (f)  any legal proceedings which may have significant bearing on the functioning of the REIT; (g) notices and results of meetings of unit holders; (h) any  instance  of  non-compliance  with  these  regulations  including  any  breach  of limits specified under these regulations; (i)  any material issue that in the opinion of the manager or trustee needs to be disclosed to the unit holders.
(6)  The  manager  shall  submit  such  information  to  the  designated  stock  exchanges  and  unit holders on a periodical basis as may be required under the listing agreement.
(7) The manager shall disclose to the designated stock exchanges, unit holders and the Board such information and in the manner as may be specified by the Board.. Submission of reports to the Board.
24. The Board may at any time call upon the REIT or parties to the REIT to file such reports, as the Board may desire, with respect to the activities relating to the REIT. Power to call for information.
25. (1) The Board may at any time call for any information from the REIT or  224[holdco or SPV(s) or] parties to the REIT or any unit holder or any other person with respect to any matter relating to activity of the REIT.
(2) Where any information is called for under sub-regulation (1), it shall be furnished within the time specified by the Board. Maintenance of records.
26. (1) The manager shall maintain records pertaining to the activity of the REIT including, 225[for a period of not less than seven years,]- 57 (a)  decisions  of  the  manager  with  respect  to  investments  or  divestments  and documents supporting the same; (b) details of investments made by the REIT and documents supporting the same; (c)  agreements entered into by the REIT or on behalf of the REIT; (d) documents relating to appointment of persons as specified in sub-regulation (5) of regulation 10; (e)  insurance policies for real estate assets; (f)  investment management agreement; (g) documents pertaining to issue and listing of units including initial offer document or follow-on offer document(s) or other offer document(s), in-principle approval by  designated  stock  exchanges,  listing  agreement  with  the  designated  stock exchanges, details of subscriptions, allotment of units, etc.; (h) distributions declared and made to the unit holders; (i)  disclosures and periodical reporting made to the trustee, Board, unit holders and designated stock exchanges including annual reports, half yearly reports, etc.; (j)  valuation reports including methodology of valuation; (k) books of accounts and financial statements; (l)  audit reports; (m) reports relating to activities of the REIT placed before the Board of Directors of the manager; (n) unit  holders'  grievances  and  actions taken  thereon including  copies  of correspondences made with the unit holders and the Board, if any; (o) any other material documents.
(2) The trustee shall maintain records pertaining to,- (a)  certificate of registration granted by the Board; (b) registered trust deed; (c)  documents pertaining to application made to the Board for registration as a REIT; (d) titles of the real estate assets: 58 Provided that where the original title documents are deposited with the lender in respect of any loan / debt, the trustee shall maintain copies of such title documents; (e)  notices and agenda send to unit holders for meetings held; (f)  minutes of meetings and resolutions passed therein; (g) periodical reports and disclosures received by the trustee from the manager; (h) disclosures, periodically or otherwise, made to the Board, unit holders and to the designated stock exchanges; (i)  any other material documents.
(3) The records specified in  sub-regulation (2) may be maintained in physical or electronic form: Provided  that  where  records  are  required  to  be  duly  signed  and  are  maintained  in  the electronic form, such records shall be digitally signed. CHAPTER VII INSPECTION Boards right to inspect.
27. The Board may suo motu or upon receipt of information or complaint appoint one or more persons as inspecting officers to undertake inspection of the books of accounts, records and documents relating to activity of the REIT 226[ or holdco or SPVs or parties to the REIT] for any of the following reasons, namely,- (a)  to ensure that the books of account, records and documents are being maintained by the REIT or parties to the REIT in the manner specified in these regulations; (b) to inspect into complaints received from unit holders, clients or any other person, on any matter having a bearing on the activities of the REIT; (c)  to  ascertain  whether the  provisions of the Act  and these regulations  are being complied with by the REIT and parties to the REIT; 59 (d) to inspect suo motu into the affairs of the REIT, in the interest of the securities market or in the interest of investors. Notice before inspection.
28. (1) Before ordering an inspection under regulation 27, the Board shall give not less  than ten days notice to the trustee of the REIT.
(2)  Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may, by an order in writing, direct that the inspection of the affairs of the REIT be taken up without such notice.
(3)  During the course of an inspection, the REIT against whom the inspection is being carried out  and  parties  to  the  REIT  shall  be  bound  to  discharge  their  obligations  as  provided  in regulation 29. Obligation of REIT, parties to the REIT and any other associate persons on inspection.
29. (1) It shall be the duty of every REIT in respect of whom an inspection has been ordered under the regulation 27, parties to the REIT and any other associate person who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of such REIT, including representative of REIT, if any, to produce to the inspecting officer such books, accounts and other documents in his custody or control and furnish him with such statements and information as the inspecting officer may require for the purposes of inspection.
(2) It shall be the duty of every REIT, parties to the REIT and any other associate person who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of the REIT to give to  the  Inspecting  Officer  all  such  assistance  and  to  extend  all  such  co-operation  as  may  be required in connection with the inspection and to furnish such information as may be sought by the inspecting officer in connection with the inspection.
(3) The inspecting officer shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to examine on oath and record the statement of any employees and directors of the REIT or parties to the REIT or 60 227[ holdco or SPV(s) or] any person responsible for or connected with the activities of REIT or any other associated person having relevant information pertaining to such REIT.
(4)  The  inspecting  officer  shall,  for  the  purposes  of  inspection,  have  power  to  obtain authenticated copies of documents, books, accounts of REIT, from any person having control or custody of such documents, books or accounts. Submission of report to the Board.
30. The inspecting officer shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection submit an inspection report to the Board: Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he may submit an interim report. Communication of findings etc. to the REIT.
31.  The  Board  may  after  consideration  of  the  inspection  report  and  after  giving  reasonable opportunity of hearing to the REITs or parties to the REIT or its representatives or any such person, issue such directions as it deems fit in the interest of securities market or the investors in the nature of,- (a)  requiring the REIT to delist its units from the designated stock exchanges and surrender its certificate of registration; (b) requiring the REIT to sell its assets; (c)  requiring the REIT or parties to the REIT to take such action as may be in the interest of the investors; (d) prohibiting  the  REIT  or  parties  to  the  REIT  from  operating  in  the  capital  market  or from accessing the capital market for a specified period. CHAPTER VIII PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT Liability for action in case of default. 61
32. A REIT or parties to the REIT or any other person involved in the activity of the REIT who contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of  the  Act  or  these  regulations,  notifications,  guidelines, circulars or instructions issued thereunder by the Board shall be liable for one or more actions specified therein including any action provided under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008. POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 228[CHAPTER VIII-A Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
32A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2)  Any  exemption  granted  by  the  Board  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  subject  to  the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. testing  environment  where  new  products,  processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  may  be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering innovation  in  the  securities  market,  subject  to  such  conditions  as  may  be  specified  by  the Board.] CHAPTER IX MISCELLANEOUS Power of the Board to issue clarifications.
33. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the manner as may be appropriate. 62 229[Power to relax strict enforcement of Regulations (33A)  The  Board  may,  in  the  interest  of  investors  or  for  the  development  of  the  securities market,  relax the strict enforcement  of any  requirement of these regulations, if the Board is satisfied that (a) requirement is procedural or technical in nature; or (b) the requirement may cause undue hardship to investors; or (c) the disclosure requirement is not relevant for a particular industry or class of listed entities; or (d) the non-compliance was caused due to factors beyond the control of the issuer; or (e) such relaxation will be in the interest of securities market230[; or] 231[(f)] any provision of Act(s), Rule(s), regulation(s) under which the listed entity is established or is governed by, is required to be given precedence to] Amendments to other regulations.
3. (1)  On  and  from  the  commencement  of  these  regulations,  an  application,  for  grant  of  a certificate to act as an intermediary, shall be made to the Board in Form A of Schedule I with such additional information as required to be provided under the relevant regulations, and the application fee, as specified in the relevant regulations: Provided that the applicant seeking registration to act as a stock broker or sub-broker or  a trading  member  or  a  clearing  member  or  a  depository  participant  shall  make  the  application along  with  such  additional  information  through  the  stock  exchange  or  through  the  clearing corporation of which the applicant is a member or trading member or through the depository in which the applicant proposes to act as a participant, as the case may be: Provided  further  that  on  and  from  the  date  specified  by  the  Board  by  a  notification  in  the Official  Gazette,  an  application  for  registration  to  act as  an  intermediary  as may  be  specified by the Board, shall be made to the relevant self regulatory organization in Form A with such additional information and the application fee as specified in the relevant regulations.
(2)  The  stock  exchange,  the  clearing  corporation,  the  depository  or  the  specified  self regulatory  organization,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall  examine  the  eligibility  of  the  applicant  in terms  of  these  regulations,  relevant  regulations  and  the  rules,  regulations  or  bye-laws  of  the concerned stock exchange, clearing corporation, depository or the self regulatory organization and  forward  the  application  with  the  application  fees  to  the  Board  along  with  its recommendation  as  early  as  possible  but  not  later  than  thirty  days  of  receipt  of  the  complete application with the specified application fees.
(3)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  any  application  made  by  an intermediary prior to the commencement of these regulations in relation to such intermediary, containing such particulars or as near thereto as are specified in Form A and such additional information as required under the relevant regulations which is pending with the Board, shall be  treated  as  an  application  made  in  pursuance  of  sub-regulation  (1)  and  be  dealt  with accordingly.
(4) An intermediary, who was granted a certificate under the relevant regulations prior to the commencement  of  these  regulations  in  relation  to  such  intermediary,  may  continue  to  act  as such, subject to the following – (a)  where  the  certificate  was  granted  for  a  specified  period,  an  application  for  grant  of certificate  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  made  by  the  intermediary  at  least  three months  prior  to  the  expiry  of  such  period  or  three  months  prior  to  expiry  of  two  years from the commencement of these regulations in relation to such intermediary, whichever is earlier and if the intermediary fails to do so, it shall cease to act as an intermediary on and from the expiry of the aforementioned period; (b)  where  a  certificate  has  been  granted  to  an  intermediary  on  a  permanent  basis,  the certificate  may  continue  to  be  valid  under  these  regulations  subject  to the  condition  that the intermediary shall, within two years of commencement of these regulations in relation to  such  intermediary,  furnish  the  information  in  Form  A  to  the  Board  and  upload  the information in Part I thereof on the website specified by the Board: Provided  that  the  time  specified  in  clause  (b)  may  be  extended  by  the  Board  up  to  a period of six months on sufficient reasons being shown by the intermediary.
(5) An intermediary who has compiled with the provisions of clause (b) of sub-regulation (4), shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  granted  certificate  under  these  regulations,  subject  to  the payment of fees specified under the relevant regulations.
(6) Subject to the provisions of the relevant regulations, an applicant or an intermediary as the case  may  be  may  carry  on  the  activities  of  one  or  more  intermediaries  only  if  it  obtains  a separate certificate to carry on each such activity. Disclosure of information.
4. (1) The information contained in Part I of Form A shall be disclosed to the public by uploading such information on the website as specified by the Board: Provided that the other relevant information furnished by the intermediary in Part II of Form A which  relates  to  commercial  confidence  and  private  information  of  the  intermediary,  may  be treated as confidential by the Board.
(2)    Any  material  change  in  the  information  furnished  or  uploaded  under  these  regulations shall be updated by the intermediary promptly but not later than fifteen days of the occurrence of such change. Furnishing of information and clarification.
5. (1)  The  Board  may  require  the  applicant  to  furnish  further  information  or  clarifications, regarding matters relevant to the activity of such an intermediary or which may otherwise be considered necessary by the Board, to consider and dispose of the application.
(2)  The  applicant  shall  furnish  such  information  and  clarification  to  the  satisfaction    of  the Board, within the time specified in this regard by the Board. Verification of information.
6. (1)  While  considering  the  application,  the  information  furnished  by  the  applicant  and  its eligibility,  the  Board  may,  if  it  so  desires,  verify  the  information  by  physical  verification  of documents,  office  space,  and  inspect  the  availability  of  office  space,  infrastructure,  and technological support which the applicant is required to have.
(2) For the purpose under sub-regulation (1), the Board may appoint any person including an auditor. Consideration of application.
7. (1) For considering the eligibility of the applicant and grant of certificate to such applicant, the Board  shall  take  into  account  all  matters  which  it  deems  relevant  to  the  activities  in  the securities market, including but not limited to the following - (a)  whether  the  applicant  or  any  of  its  associates  have  in  the  past  been  refused  certificate  by the Board and if so, the ground for such refusal; (b)  whether  the  applicant,  its  directors  or  partners,  or  trustees,  as  the  case  may  be  or  its principal  officer  is  involved  in  any  pending  litigation  connected  with  the  securities  market which  has  an  adverse  bearing  on  the  business  of  the  applicant  or  on  development  or functioning of the securities markets; (c) whether the applicant satisfies the eligibility criteria and other requirements as specified in these regulations and the relevant regulations; (d) whether the grant of a certificate to the applicant is in the interest of the investors and the development of the securities market.
(2) Any application for grant of certificate:- (a) which is not complete in all respects and does not conform to the requirements in Form A and the requirements specified in the relevant regulation; (b) which does not contain such additional information as required by the Board; (c) which is incorrect, false or misleading in nature; (d) where the applicant is not in compliance with the eligibility requirements as set out under these regulations or  the relevant regulations; (e) where the applicant is not a ‘fit and proper person' as stated in Schedule II; (f)  where  the  principal  officer  does  not  have  the  requisite  qualification  or  experience  as required under the relevant regulations; shall be rejected by the Board for reasons to be recorded by the Board in writing.
(3) Before rejecting an application, the applicant shall be given an opportunity in writing to make good the deficiencies within the time specified by the Board, for    the purpose: Provided  that  where  an  application  is  rejected  for  the  reason  that  it  contains  false  or misleading information, no such opportunity may be given and the applicant shall not make any application for grant of certificate under these regulations or any other regulations for a period of one year from the date of such rejection. Procedure for grant of certificate.
8. (1) The Board on being satisfied that the applicant is eligible, shall grant a certificate in the form  specified  in  the  relevant  regulations  and  send  an  intimation  to  the  applicant  in  this regard: Provided  that  where  a  pending  proceeding  before  the  Board  or  any  court  or  tribunal  may result in the suspension or cancellation of the certificate, the Board may give a conditional registration.
(2)  When  an  intermediary,  who  has  been  granted  a  certificate  and  who  has  filed  Form  A under  these  regulations,  wishes  to  commence  a  new  activity  which  requires  a  separate certificate  under  the  relevant  regulations,  it  shall,  while  seeking  such  certificate,  not  be required to file Form A, and shall furnish to the Board only such additional information as is required under the relevant regulations. Conditions of certificate.
9. (1)  Any  certificate  granted  by  the  Board  to  an  intermediary  shall  be  subject  to the  following conditions, namely:— (a)  where  the  intermediary  proposes  to  change  its  status  or  constitution,  it  shall  obtain  prior approval  of the Board  for  continuing  to  act  as  an  intermediary  after  such  change  in  status  or constitution; (b) (c) and circulars  as may be issued thereunder; (d) it shall continuously comply with the requirements of regulation 4; it shall pay the applicable fees in accordance with the relevant regulations; it  shall  abide  by  the    provisions  of  the  securities  laws  and  the  directions,  guidelines (e)  it  shall  meet  the  eligibility  criteria  and  other  requirements  specified  in  these  regulations and the relevant regulations: Provided that the  Board  may  impose  other  conditions as  it  may  deem  fit  in  the  interest  of investors  or  orderly  development  of  the  securities market  or  for  regulation  of  the  working  of the intermediary and the intermediary shall comply with such conditions.
(2) A request for prior approval, under clause (a) of sub regulation (1) which is complete in all respects  shall  be  disposed  off  by  the  Board  within  a  period  of  sixty  days  from  the  date  of receipt of such request and where the decision of the Board has not been communicated to the intermediary within the said period of sixty days, the prior approval  shall be deemed to have been granted.
(3)  The  request  for  prior  approval  under  clause  (a)  of  sub  regulation  (1)  shall  contain  the information  in  Form  A  in  respect  of  the  intermediary  after  the  proposed  change  in  status  or constitution  and  the  information  under  Part  I  of  Form  A  shall  be  uploaded  in  the  website specified by the Board. Effect of refusal to grant certificate or expiry of certificate.
10. (1) Where an intermediary has failed to make an application under sub-regulation
(4)  of  regulation  3  or  where  an  existing  intermediary  has  been  refused  grant  of  certificate under these regulations, the intermediary shall: (a) forthwith cease to act as such intermediary; (b) transfer its activities to another intermediary  which has been granted a certificate for carrying on such activity and allow its clients or investors to withdraw or transfer their securities or funds held in its custody without any additional cost to such client or investor; (c) make provisions as regards  liability incurred or assumed by the intermediary; (d) take such other action, within the time period and in the manner, as may be required under the relevant regulations or as may be directed by the Board.
(2) While refusing grant of certificate under these regulations to an intermediary, the Board may impose such conditions upon the intermediary as it deems fit for protection of investors or clients of the intermediary or the securities market and such conditions shall be complied with. Period of validity of certificate.
11. Subject  to  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  these  regulations  and  the  relevant regulations,  the  certificate  granted  to  an  intermediary  shall  be  permanent  unless surrendered  by  the  intermediary  or  suspended  or  cancelled  in  accordance  with  these regulations. GENERAL OBLIGATIONS OF INTERMEDIARIES CHAPTER III General obligations.
12. (1) An intermediary shall provide the Board with a certificate of its compliance officer on st the 1 April of each year certifying: (a)  the  compliance  by  the  intermediary  with  all  the  obligations,  responsibilities  and  the fulfillment  of  the  eligibility  criteria  on  a  continuous  basis  under  these  regulations  and  the relevant regulations; (b)  that  all  disclosures  made  in  Form  A  and  under  the  relevant  regulations  are  true  and complete.
(2) Each intermediary shall prominently display a photocopy of the certificate at all its offices including branch offices.
(3)  The  intermediary  shall  also  prominently  display  the  name  and  contact  details  of  the compliance officer to whom complaint may be made in the event of any investor grievance.
(4)  The  intermediary  shall  maintain  such  books,  accounts  and  records  as  specified  in  the relevant regulations. Redressal of investor grievances.
13.        (1)  The intermediary shall make endeavours to redress investor grievances promptly but not later than forty-five days of receipt thereof and when called upon by the  Board to do so it shall redress the grievances of investors within the time specified by the Board.
(2)  The  intermediary  shall  maintain  records  regarding  investor  grievances  received  by  it  and redressal of such grievances.
(3) The intermediary shall at the end of each quarter of a Financial Year ending on 31st March upload  information  about  the  number  of  investor  grievances  received,  redressed  and  those remaining  unresolved  beyond  three  months  of  the  receipt  thereof  by  the  intermediary  on  the website specified by the Board. Appointment of compliance officer.
14. (1) An intermediary shall appoint a compliance officer for monitoring the compliance by it of the  requirements  of  the  Act,  rules,  regulations,  notifications,  guidelines,  circulars  and  orders made  or  issued  by  the  Board  or  the  Central  Government,  or  the  rules,  regulations  and  bye- laws of the concerned stock exchanges, or the self regulatory organization, where applicable: Provided that the intermediary may not appoint compliance officer if it is not carrying on the activity of the intermediary.
(2) The compliance officer shall report to the intermediary or its board of directors, in writing, of any material non-compliance by the intermediary. Investment advice.
15.  (1)  An  intermediary,  its  directors,  officers,  employees  or  key  management  personnel  shall  not render,  directly  or  indirectly,  any  investment  advice  about  any  security  in  the  publicly accessible  media,  whether  real-time  or  non-real-time,  unless  a  disclosure  of  its  interest, direct  or  indirect,  including  its  long  or  short  position  in  the  said  security  has  been  made, while rendering such advice. If  an  intermediary’s  directors,  officers,  employees  or  key  management  personnel
(2) are  rendering  such  advice,  the  intermediary  shall  ensure  that  while  rendering  such  advice  he discloses  his  interest,  the  interest  of  his  dependent  family members  and  that  of  the  employer including employer’s long or short position in the said security.
(3)   An  intermediary  shall  not  make  a  recommendation to any  client  or  investor  who  may be  expected  to  rely  thereon  to  acquire,  dispose  of  or  retain  any  securities  unless  he  has reasonable grounds to believe that the recommendation is suitable. Code of conduct.
16.  An  intermediary  and  its  directors,  officers,  employees  and  key  management  personnel  shall continuously abide by the code of conduct specified in Schedule III. CHAPTER IV INSPECTION AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS Right of inspection by the Board.
17.  (1)   Without  prejudice  to the  provisions  of  section  11  and  section 11C  of  the  Act,  the Board  may appoint one or more persons as inspecting authority to undertake the inspection of the books, accounts,  records  including  telephone  records  and  electronic  records  and  documents  of  an intermediary for any purpose, including the purposes as specified under sub-regulation (2).
(2) The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) may include:- (a)  to  ensure  that  the  books  of  account,  records  including  telephone  records  and  electronic records    and  documents  are  being  maintained  in  the  manner  required  under  the  relevant regulations; (b)  to  ascertain  whether  adequate  internal  control  systems,  procedures  and  safeguards  have been established and are being followed by the intermediary to fulfill its obligations under the relevant regulations; (c)  to  ascertain  whether  any  circumstances  exist  which  would  render  the  intermediary  unfit  or ineligible; (d)  to  ascertain  whether  the  provisions  of  the  securities  laws  and  the  directions  or  circulars issued thereunder are being complied with; (e) to inquire into the complaints received from investors, clients, other market participants or any other person on any matter having a bearing on the activities of the  intermediary; (f) to inquire suo motu into such matters as may be deemed fit in the interest of investors or the securities market. Notice before inspection.
18.  (1)  Before  undertaking  an  inspection  under  regulation  17,  the  inspecting  authority  shall  give  a notice to the concerned intermediary: Provided that where the inspecting authority is satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such  notice  should be  given, it  may,  for  reasons  to  be        recorded  in  writing,  dispense  with such notice.
(2)  During  the  course  of  inspection,  the  intermediary  shall  be  bound  to  discharge  its obligations provided under regulation 19. Obligations of Intermediary on inspection.
19. (1) It shall be the duty of every director, proprietor, partner, trustee, officer, employee and any agent of an intermediary which is being inspected, to produce to the inspecting authority such  books,  accounts,  records  including  telephone  records  and  electronic  records  and documents  in  his  custody  or  control  and  furnish  to  the  inspecting  authority  with  such statements  and  information  relating  to  its  activities  within  such  time  as  the  inspecting authority may require.
(2)  The  intermediary  shall  allow  the  inspecting  authority  to  have  reasonable  access  to  the premises  occupied  by  such  intermediary  or  by  any  other  person  on  its  behalf  and  also  extend reasonable facility for examining any books, records including telephone records and electronic records and documents in the possession of the intermediary or any such other person and also provide copies of documents or other material which in the opinion of the inspecting authority are relevant for the purposes of the inspection.
(3) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 11 of the Act,         the inspecting  authority  shall,  in  the  course  of  inspection,  be  entitled  to  examine  or  record statements  of  any  principal  officer,  director,  trustee,  partner,  proprietor  or  employee  of  such intermediary.
(4)  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  director,  proprietor,  trustee,  partner,  officer  and  employee  of such  intermediary  to  give  to  the  inspecting  authority  all  assistance  which  the  inspecting authority may reasonably require in connection with the inspection. Appointment of auditor or valuer.
20. (1)  The Board may appoint a qualified auditor to inspect the books of account or the affairs of an intermediary: Provided  that  the  auditor  so  appointed  shall  have  the  same  powers  of  the  inspecting authority  mentioned  in  regulation  17  and  the  obligation  of  the  intermediary  and  its employees  mentioned  in  regulation  19  shall  be  applicable  to      the  inspection  under  this regulation. shall have the meaning derived from section 226 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).
(2) The Board may appoint a qualified valuer or direct a qualified valuer to be appointed by the intermediary, if so considered necessary by the Board.
(3)  The  expenses  of  such  audit  under  sub-regulation  (1)  or  valuation  under  sub-regulation  (2) shall be borne by the intermediary. Submission of report to the Board.
21.  (1)  The  inspecting  authority  shall  submit  an inspection  report including  interim   reports  to  the Board.
(2)   On submission of the inspection report, the Board may take such action thereon as         it may deem fit and appropriate. CHAPTER V ACTION  IN  CASE  OF  DEFAULT  AND  MANNER  OF  SUSPENSION  OR CANCELLATION OF CERTIFICATE Definitions.
22. In this Chapter unless the context otherwise requires, - (a) “date of receipt of reply” includes the date on which the noticee makes oral submissions, if any; (b) “designated authority” means an officer of the Board and includes a bench of such officers appointed under regulation 24; (c) “designated member” means the Chairman or a Whole Time Member of the Board designated for the purpose; 6[(ca) “Executive Director” means an officer of the Board who is appointed as such by the Board;] (d) “noticee” means the person to whom a notice has been issued under this Chapter. Cancellation or suspension of registration and other actions.
23.  Where  any  person  who  has  been  granted  a  certificate  of  registration  under  the  Act  or  regulations made thereunder, – (a) fails to comply with any conditions subject to which a certificate of registration has been granted to him; (b) contravenes any of the provisions of the securities laws or directions, instructions or circulars issued thereunder; the Board may, without prejudice to any action under the securities laws or directions, instructions or  circulars  issued  thereunder,  by  order  take  such  action  in  the  manner  provided  under  these regulations. Appointment of designated authority.
24. 7[(1) Where it appears to the designated member, that any person who has been granted a certificate of registration under the Act and regulations made thereunder has committed any default of the nature specified in regulation 23, the designated member may approve the initiation of proceedings under this Chapter against such person.
(2) The Executive Director shall thereafter appoint an officer not below the rank of a Division Chief, as a designated authority: Provided that the executive director may, at his discretion, appoint a  bench  of  three  officers,  each  of whom  shall not  be  below  the  rank  of  a Division Chief: Provided  further  that  such  bench  shall  be  presided  by  the  senior  most  amongst  them  and  all  the decisions or recommendations of such bench shall be by way of majority.]
8[(3)] No officer who has conducted investigation or inspection in respect of the alleged violation shall be appointed as a designated authority. Issuance of notice.
25. (1) The designated authority shall, if it finds reasonable grounds to do so, issue a notice to the concerned person requiring him to show cause as to why the certificate of registration granted to it, should not be suspended or cancelled or why any other action provided herein should not be taken.
(2)  Every notice under sub-regulation (1) shall specify the contravention alleged to have been committed by the noticee indicating the provisions of the Act, rules, regulations, circulars or guidelines in respect of which the contravention is alleged to have taken place.
(3)    There shall be annexed to the notice issued under sub- regulation (1) copies of  documents relied on in making of the imputations and extracts of relevant portions of documents, reports containing the findings arrived at in an investigation or inspection, if any, carried out.
(4)     The  noticee  shall  be  called  upon  to  submit  within  a  period  to  be  specified  in  the  notice,  not exceeding  twenty-one  days  from  the  date  of  service  thereof,  a  written  representation  along  with documentary evidence, if any, in support of the representation to the designated authority. Reply by the noticee.
26. (1) The noticee shall submit to the designated authority its written representation within the period specified in the notice along with documentary  evidence, if any, in support thereof: Provided that the designated authority may extend the time specified in the notice for sufficient grounds shown by the noticee and after recording reasons in writing.
(2)  If  the  noticee  does  not  reply  to  the  show  cause  notice,  the  designated  authority  may  proceed with the matter ex-parte recording the reasons for doing so and make recommendation as the case may be on the basis of material facts available before it. Action in case of default.
27. After considering the representations, if any, of the noticee, the facts and circumstances of the case and applicable provisions of law or directions, instructions or circulars administered by the Board the designated authority shall submit a report, where the facts so warrant, recommending, – (i) suspension of certificate of registration for a specified period; (ii) cancellation of certificate of registration; (iii) prohibiting the noticee to take up any new assignment or contract or launch a new scheme for the period specified in the order; (iv) debarring a principal officer of the noticee from being employed or associated with any registered intermediary or other registered person for the period specified in the order; (v) debarring a branch or an office of the noticee from carrying out activities for the specified period; (vi) warning the noticee. Procedure for action on receipt of the recommendation.
28.  (1)  On  receipt  of  the  report  recommending  the  measures  from  the  designated  authority,  the designated  member  shall  consider  the  same  and  issue  a  show  cause  notice  to  the  noticee enclosing a copy of the report submitted by the designated authority calling upon the noticee to submit  its  written  representation  as  to  why  the  action,  including  passing  of  appropriate direction, as the designated member considers appropriate, should not be taken.
(2) The noticee may, within twenty one days of receipt of the notice send a reply to the designated member who may pass appropriate order after considering the reply, if any received from the noticee  and  providing  the  person  with  an  opportunity  of  being  heard,  as  expeditiously  as possible  and  endeavour  shall be made to pass the order within one hundred and twenty days from the date of receipt of reply of the notice or hearing. Common order.
29.  The designated member may pass a common order in respect of a number of noticees where the subject matter in question is substantially the same or similar in nature. Intimation of the order.
30. (1)  Every report made by a designated authority and every order passed by the designated member under this Chapter shall be dated and signed. A copy of the order passed under this Chapter shall be sent to the noticee and  also
(2) uploaded on the website of the Board.
(3) regulatory organization, a copy of the order shall also be sent to the concerned stock exchange, clearing corporation, depository or self regulatory organization. If the noticee is a member of a stock exchange, clearing corporation, a depository or a self- Surrender of any certificate of registration.
31. (1) Any person, who has been granted a certificate of registration under the Act or the regulations made thereunder, desirous of giving up its activity and surrender the certificate, may make a request for such surrender to the Board and while disposing such request, the Board shall not be bound by the procedure specified in the foregoing provisions of this Chapter.
(2) While disposing a request under this regulation, the Board may require the concerned person to satisfy the Board the factors as it deems fit, including but not limited to the following - (a)  the  arrangements  made  by  the  person  for  maintenance  and  preservation  of  records  and other documents required to be maintained under the relevant regulations; (b) redressal of investor grievances; (c) transfer of records, funds or securities of its clients; (d) the arrangements made by it for ensuring continuity of service to the clients; (e) defaults or pending action, if any.
(3) While accepting surrender, the Board may impose such conditions upon the person as it deems fit for protection of the investors or its clients or the securities market and such person shall comply with such conditions. Effect of debarment, suspension, cancellation or surrender.
32. (1)   On and from the date of debarment or suspension of the certificate, the concerned person shall- (a)  not  undertake  any  new  assignment  or  contract  or  launch  any  new  scheme  and  during  the period  of  such  debarment  or  suspension  it    shall  cease  to  carry  on  any  activity  in  respect  of which certificate had been granted; (b)  allow  its  clients  or  investors  to  withdraw  or  transfer  their  securities  or  funds  held  in  its custody or withdraw any assignment given to it, without any additional cost to such client or investor; (c) make provisions as regards  liability incurred or assumed by it; such  other  action  including  the  action  relating  to  any  records  or  documents  and (d) take securities or money of the investors that may be in custody or control of such person, within the time period and in the manner, as may be required under the relevant regulations or as may be directed by the Board while passing order under this Chapter or otherwise.
(2) On and from the date of surrender or cancellation of the certificate, the  concerned person shall- (a) return the certificate of registration so cancelled to the Board and shall not represent itself to  be  a  holder  of  certificate  for  carrying  out  the  activity  for  which  such  certificate  had  been granted; (b) cease to carry on any activity in respect of which the certificate had been granted; (c) transfer its activities to another person holding a valid certificate of registration to carry on such activity and allow its clients or investors to withdraw or transfer their securities or funds held  in  its  custody  or to  withdraw  any  assignment  given  to it,  without  any  additional  cost  to such client or investor; (d) make provisions as regards  liability incurred or assumed by it; (e)  take  such  other  action  including  the  action  relating  to  any  records  or  documents  and securities or money of the investors that may be in custody or control of such person, within the time period and in the manner, as may be required under the relevant regulations or as may be directed by the Board while passing order under this Chapter or otherwise. Appeal to Securities Appellate Tribunal
33.  The person aggrieved by an order under these regulations may prefer an appeal to the Securities Appellate Tribunal against such order in accordance with the provisions of section 15T of the Act and Rules prescribed in this regards. 9[CHAPTER VA
33A. Situations when summary procedure to be followed. - Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, any proceedings initiated under Chapter III of the erstwhile Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002 (repealed vide notification No. LAD-NRO/GN/2008/11/126538 dated May 26, 2008) prior to the coming into force of these regulations, shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
33B. Procedure to be followed under this chapter
(1) The Chairman or member may appoint an officer of the Board, not below the rank of Assistant General  Manager  or  Assistant  Legal  Advisor  for  giving  his  recommendation  after  following  the procedure under this regulation in respect of the proceedings referred to in regulation 33A: Provided  that  in  respect  of  the  proceedings  referred  to  in  regulation  33A,  if  a  representation  is received  from  an  intermediary  to  dispense  with  the  procedure  laid  down  in  regulation  33B,  the Chairman  or  the  member  may  not  appoint  an  officer  of  the  Board  under  this  sub-regulation  and pass an appropriate order after considering the representation of the intermediary.
(2) The  officer  appointed  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  issue  to  the  intermediary,  against whom  the  proceedings  are  being  held,  a  notice  requiring  the  intermediary  to  make  a  written submission  in  reply to  the  notice  within such  time,  not  exceeding  fifteen  days  after  the  receipt  of the notice, as may be specified in the notice: Provided  that  the  officer  may  extend  the  time  mentioned  under  sub-regulation  (2)  for  sufficient reasons to be recorded in writing.
(3) If  the  intermediary  fails  to  make  a  written  submission  to  the  notice  within  the  period specified  in  the  notice,  the  officer  shall,  after  considering  the  circumstances  and  in  light  of  the material  on  record,  submit  a  report  to  the Chairman  or  the member,  as  the  case  may  be,  and may recommend  taking  of  any  action  under  regulation  27  as  he  considers  appropriate  in  the circumstances of the case and shall give reasons for recommending such action.
(4) If  the  intermediary  makes  submission  within  the  said  period,  the  officer  shall,  after considering  the  submission  so  made, submit  a  report  to  the  Chairman  or  the  member,  as  the  case may be, and may recommend taking of any action under regulation 27 as he considers appropriate in the circumstances of the case and shall give reasons for recommending such action.
(5)  The  Chairman  or  the  member,  as the  case  may  be,  after  receipt  of  recommendations  from  the officer  under  sub-regulation  (3)  or  sub-regulation  (4),  shall  pass  such  orders  as  he  may  deem appropriate.
(6)  The  Chairman  or  the  member  may  pass  a  common  order  in  respect  of  a  number  of intermediaries where the subject matter in question is substantially the same or similar in nature.
33C. Publication of order. - The Board shall issue a press release in respect of an order under this chapter in  at  least  two  newspapers  of  which  at  least  one  shall  have  nationwide  circulation  and  shall  also  put  the order on the website of the Board.] 10[CHAPTER V B POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
33D.  (1)  The  Board  may,  exempt  any  person  or  class  of  persons  from  the  operation  of  all  or  any  of  the provisions  of  these  regulations  for  a  period  as  may  be  specified  but  not  exceeding  twelve  months,  for furthering innovation in technological aspects relating to testing new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be deployed on a limited set  of  eligible  customers  for  a  specified  period  of  time,  for  furthering  innovation  in  the  securities  market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board.] CHAPTER VI MISCELLANEOUS Manner of service of notice and order and publication of order.
34. (1) Any notice issued or order passed under these regulations may be served - (a) by hand delivery to the concerned person or his duly authorized agent; or (b) by delivery, at the address available on the records of the Board and addressed to that person or his duly authorized agent, by registered post acknowledgement due or by speed post or by such courier service or by electronic mail service or by any other means of transmission which affords a record of delivery; or (c)  in  case  of  a  stock  broker  or  a  sub-broker  or  a  depository  participant  through  the  concerned stock exchange or the depository respectively; and (d) if it cannot be served as per clause (a) or (b) or (c), by affixing the same on the door or some other  conspicuous  part  of  the  premises  in  which  such  person  resides  or  is  known  to  have  last resided or carries on business or is known to have last carried on business or personally works for gain or is known to have last personally worked for gain.
(2) Every order passed under these regulations shall be put on the website of the Board. Directions.
35.  Without  prejudice  to    any  order  under  the  securities  laws  and  the  directions,  guidelines  and circulars as may be issued thereunder  including an order under Chapter V of these regulations the Board  may  in  the  interest  of  the  securities  market,  in  the  interest  of  the  investors  or  for  the purpose  of  securing  the  proper  management  of  any  intermediary,  issue,  necessary  direction including but not limited to any or all of the following - (a) directing the intermediary or other  persons associated with securities market to refund any money  or  securities  collected  from  the  investors  under  any  scheme  or  otherwise  ,with  or without  interest; (b) directing the intermediary or other  persons associated with securities market not to access the capital market or not to deal in securities  for a particular period or not to associate with any intermediary or with any capital market related activity; (c) directing the recognised stock exchange concerned not to permit trading in the securities or units issued by a mutual fund or collective investment scheme; (d)  directing  the  recognised  stock  exchange  concerned  to  suspend  trading  in  the  securities  or units issued by a mutual fund or collective investment scheme; (e)  any  other  direction  which  the  Board  may  deem  fit  and  proper  in  the  circumstances  of  the case: Provided that before issuing any directions the Board shall give a reasonable opportunity of being  heard  to  the  persons  concerned:  Provided  further  that  if  the  circumstances  warrant  any interim  direction  is  required  to  be  passed  immediately,  the  Board  shall  give  a  reasonable opportunity of hearing to the persons concerned after passing the direction, without any undue delay. Power of the Board to issue clarifications.
36.  In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  application  or  interpretation  of  these  regulations,  the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of circulars. Amendments to other regulations.
37.  The  regulations  specified  in  the  Schedule  IV  shall  be  amended  in  the  manner  and  to  the  extent stated therein. Repeal and savings
38. (1) With effect from publication of these regulations in the Official Gazette – (a) the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002; and (b) the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Criteria for Fit and Proper Persons) Regulations, 2004 shall be repealed.
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under those regulations including an enquiry  commenced  or  notice  issued  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, before the publication of these regulations in the Official Gazette, shall be deemed to have been done or taken or commenced under the corresponding provisions of these  regulations.
3. (1) The Board may by notification in the Official Gazette require such categories of associated persons to obtain requisite certificate for engagement or employment with such  classes  of  intermediaries  and  from  such  date  as  may  be  specified  in  the notification: Provided that an associated person employed or engaged by an intermediary prior to the  date  specified  by  the  Board  may  continue  to  be  employed  or  engaged  by  the intermediary if he obtains the certificate within two years from the said date.
(2)  An  associated  person  on  being  employed  or  engaged  by  an  intermediary  on  or after the date specified by the Board shall obtain the certificate within one year from the date of being employed or engaged by the intermediary.
(3)  An  associated  person  who,  as  on  the  date  specified  by  the  Board,  holds  a certificate for a category as recognized by the Board shall not be required to obtain a fresh certificate for the same category during the validity of such certificate.
(4)  The Board for the purpose of issuing notification under sub regulations (1) and (2) shall take into consideration: (a)   whether the associated person as part of his work or operation deals or interacts with the investors, issuers or clients of intermediaries; (b)   whether the  associated  person  deals  with  assets  or  funds  of  investor  or clients; (c)   whether the associated person handles redressal of investor grievances; (d)   whether the  associated  person  is  responsible  for  internal  control  or  risk management; (e)   whether the  associated  person  is  responsible  for  compliance  of  any  rules  or regulations; (f)   whether the  associated  person  is  engaged  in  activities  that  have  a  bearing  on operational risk of the intermediary. Manner of obtaining certificate
4. (1) Subject to the provisions of this regulation, an associated person may obtain the certificate in any of the following manners, namely:- (a)  by  passing  a  certification  examination  conducted  by  any  organization  or  self regulatory organization approved or engaged as may be specified by NISM from time to time; or (b)  by  obtaining  such  number  of  classroom  credits  accumulated  through  attending classes on such subjects as may be specified by NISM from time to time; or (c) by delivering  such  number  of  formal  classroom  sessions  in  all  or  specific programmes of continuing professional education as may be specified by NISM from time to time.
(2)  An  associated  person  being  principal  shall  obtain  the  certificate  in  any  of  the manners specified in clause (a) or clause (b) or clause (c) of sub regulation (1).
(3)  An  associated  person,  other  than  a  principal,  who  has  attained  the  age  of  fifty years or who has atleast ten years experience in the securities markets in the activities mentioned in sub regulation (4) of regulation 3 on the date specified in the notification issued  under  sub  regulation  (1)  of  regulation  3,  shall  obtain  the  certificate  in  the relevant category in the manner specified in clause (a) or clause (b) of sub regulation
(1). (4)  An  associated  person  other  than  those  mentioned  in  sub  regulation  (2)  or  sub regulation (3) shall obtain the certificate in the manner specified in clause (a) of sub regulation (1). Validity period of certificate
5. (1) The certificate  granted  under  regulation  3  shall  be  valid  for  a  period  of  three years  from  the  date  of  the  grant  of  the  certificate  or  revalidation  thereof  as  the  case may be.
(2) Upon  expiry  of  the  validity  of  certificate  possessed  by  an  associated  person,  the certificate  shall  be  revalidated  for  a  period  of  three  years  at  a  time,  provided  the associated  person  successfully  completes  a  programme  of  continuing  professional education specified by NISM in accordance with Chapter IV of these regulations. Associated person not to undertake certain activities without a valid certificate
6. No associated person engaged in any of the activities mentioned in clauses (a) to (f) of  sub  regulation  (4)  of  regulation  3  shall  continue  to  be  so  engaged  after  the  date specified in sub regulation (1) or sub regulation (2) of regulation 3, as the case may be, unless such associated person holds a valid certificate. CHAPTER III POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF NISM Powers and functions of NISM
7. (1) NISM would perform the functions delegated to it under these regulations or as may be delegated by the Board.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions and the activities of NISM  under  its  articles,  the  functions  of  NISM  in  respect  of  certification  for associated  persons  in  the  securities  market  shall  include  putting  in  place  and implementing the certification process, procedure and policies.
(3) NISM in consultation with the Board may lay down standards which may – (a) specify that  all  or  any  portion  of  such  standards  shall  be  applicable  to  all  or  any category  of  associated  persons  working  or  associated  with  all  or  any  class  of intermediaries in securities market; (b) specify that  no  associated  person  in  any  such  class  may  be  qualified  to  be employed  or  engaged  or  continued  to  be  employed  or  engaged  by  an  intermediary unless  he  is  in  compliance  with  such  standards  of  examination,  continuing professional  education  requirements  and  such  other  qualifications  as  NISM  in consultation with the Board may specify. Conduct of certification examination and programmes of continuing professional education
8. For conducting certification examination and programme of continuing professional education, NISM may:
(1) accredit, approve  or  engage  any  organization  or  self  regulatory  organization  to administer certification examinations.
(2) accredit,  approve  or  engage  any  organization  or  self  regulatory  organization  to conduct  all  or  any  programme  of  continuing  professional  education  as  may  be specified from time to time.
(3)  require all  associated  persons  appearing  for  certification  examinations  or undergoing programme of continuing professional education to pay reasonable fees or charges to defray the costs incurred in conducting such certification examinations and programmes of continuing professional education. CHAPTER IV CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS Continuing Professional Education requirements for associated persons
9. (1) NISM may specify the requirements for continuing professional education (CPE) for associated persons holding certificate and approve the programmes of CPE that may be conducted by entities accredited and engaged in accordance with regulation 8.
(2) No intermediary shall permit any associated person to continue and no associated person shall continue to perform duties as an associated person unless such person has complied with the requirements specified by NISM under sub regulation (1) within 3 years from the date of obtaining the certificate or revalidation thereof.
(3) The requirements of sub regulations (1) and (2) shall apply to associated persons who  are  engaged  in  any  of  the  activities  mentioned  in  clauses  (a)  to  (f)  of  sub regulation (4) of regulation 3. Intermediary to ensure participation in continuing professional education
10.  (1)  Each  intermediary  shall  be  responsible  to  ensure  that  its  associated  persons participate  in  a  programme  of  continuing professional  education  approved  by  NISM under sub regulation (1) of regulation 9.
(2) Associated persons shall take all appropriate and reasonable steps to participate in a programme of continuing professional education as required by the intermediary. CHAPTER V MISCELLANEOUS Certification  of  associated  persons  to  be  pre-condition  for  registration  of intermediaries.
3.  (1)  Any  person  proposing  to commence  any  activity  as  a  credit  rating  agency on  or  after  the  date  of  commencement  of  these  regulations  shall  make  an application  to  the  Board  for  the  grant  of  a  certificate  of  8[***]  registration  for  the purpose.
(2) 9[***]
05.07.2011 (3) An application for the grant of a certificate under sub-regulation (1) 10[***] shall be made to the Board in Form A of the First Schedule and shall be accompanied by  a  non–refundable  application  fee,  as  specified  in  Form  A  of  the  second Schedule, to be paid in the manner specified in Part B thereof.
(4) 11[***] Promoter of credit rating agency
4.  The  Board  shall  not  consider  an  application  under  regulation  3  unless  the applicant  is  promoted  by  a  person  belonging  to  any  of  the  following  categories, namely: (a) a  public  financial  institution,  as  defined  in  section  4  A  of  the  Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956); (b) a  scheduled  commercial  bank  included  for  the  time  being  in  the  second schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934); (c) a foreign bank operating in India with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India; (d)12[a  foreign  credit  rating  agency  incorporated  in  a  Financial  Action  Task Force  (FATF)  member  jurisdiction  and  recognised  under  their  law,  having a minimum of five years’ experience in rating securities;] (e) any   company   or   a   body   corporate,   having   continuous   net   worth   of minimum  rupees  one  hundred  crores  as  per  its  audited  annual  accounts for  the  previous  five  years  prior  to  filing  of  the  application  with  the  Board for the grant of certificate under these regulations. agency,  shall  make an application to the  Board for the grant of a certificate within a period of three months from such date: Provided that the Board may, where it is of the opinion that it is necessary to do so, for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend the said period upto a maximum of six months form such date.” Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 to its substitution, it read as “a foreign credit rating agency recognised by or under any law for the time being in force in the country of its incorporation, having at least five years experience in rating securities;” Eligibility criteria
5. The Board shall not consider an application for the grant of a certificate under regulation 3, unless the applicant satisfies the following conditions, namely: (a) the applicant is set up and registered as a company under the Companies Act, 1956; (b) the  applicant  has,  in  its  Memorandum  of  Association,  specified  rating activity as one of its main objects; (c) 13[the applicant has a minimum net worth of rupees twenty five crore;] (d) the applicant  has  adequate  infrastructure,  to  enable  it  to  provide  rating services   in   accordance   with   the   provisions   of   the   Act   and   these regulations; (e) the applicant and the promoters of the applicant, referred to in regulation 4 have  professional    competence,    financial    soundness    and    general reputation  of  fairness  and  integrity  in  business  transactions,  to  the satisfaction of the Board; (f)  neither the applicant, nor its promoter, nor any director of the applicant or its  promoter,  is  involved  in  any  legal  proceeding  connected  with  the securities  market,  which  may  have  an  adverse  impact  on  the  interests  of the investors; (g) neither  the  applicant,  nor  its  promoters,  nor  any  director,  of  its  promoter has at any time in the past been convicted of any offence involving moral turpitude or any economic offence; (h) the    applicant    has,    in    its    employment,    persons    having    adequate professional and other relevant experience to the satisfaction of the Board; (i)  neither  the  applicant,  nor  any  person  directly  or  indirectly  connected  with the applicant has in the past been – (i) refused by the Board a certificate under these regulations or to its substitution, it read as under: “the applicant has a minimum net worth of rupees five crores. Provided that a  credit rating agency existing at the commencement of these regulations, with a net worth of less than rupees five crores, shall be deemed to have satisfied this condition, if it increases its net worth to the said minimum within a period of three years of such commencement.” (ii)  subjected  to  any  proceedings  for  a  contravention  of  the  Act  or  of  any rules or regulations made under the Act. or  indirectly  connected  person"  means  any  person  who  is  an  associate, subsidiary,  inter-connected  or  group  company  of  the  applicant  or  a company under the same management as the applicant. (j)  the applicant, in all other respects, is a fit and proper person for the grant of a certificate; (k) grant  of  certificate  to  the  applicant  is  in  the  interest  of  investors  and  the securities market; 14[(l)  the  promoter  of  the  credit  rating  agency,  in  terms  of  regulation  4,  has  a minimum shareholding of 26% in the credit rating agency.] 15[Criteria  for  Fit  and  Proper  Person)  Regulations,
2004.
5A.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the  credit  rating agency  is  a  fit  and  proper  person  the  Board  may  take  into  account  the  criteria specified  in  Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.] Application to conform to the requirements
6.  Any  application  for a  certificate, which  is  not  complete  in  all  respects  or  does not conform to the requirement of regulation 5 or instructions specified in Form A shall be rejected by the Board: Provided  that,  before  rejecting  any  such  application,  the  applicant  shall  be given  an  opportunity  to  remove,  within  thirty  days  of  the  date  of  receipt  of relevant communication, from the Board such objections as may be indicated by the Board. Provided  further,  that  the  Board  may,  on  sufficient  reason  being  shown, extend  the  time  for  removal  of  objections  by  such  further  time,  not  exceeding thirty days, as the Board may consider fit to enable the applicant to remove such objections. Furnishing of information, clarification and personal representation
7.  (1) The Board may require the applicant  to furnish such further information or clarification as the Board may consider necessary, for the purpose of processing of the application.
(2)  The  Board,  if  it  so  desires,  may  ask  the  applicant  or  its  authorised representative  to  appear  before  the  Board,  for  personal  representation  in connection with the grant of a certificate.
16[8. Grant of certificate of 17[***] registration.
(1)  The  Board,  on  being  satisfied  that  the  applicant  is  eligible,  shall  grant  a certificate  of  18[***]  registration  in  Form  B  and  shall  send  an  intimation  to  the applicant.
19[(2) The certificate of registration granted under sub-regulation (1) shall be valid unless it is suspended or cancelled by the Board.] to its substitution, regulation 8 read as under: “Grant of Certificate
8. (1) The Board, on being satisfied that the applicant is eligible for the grant of a certificate of registration, shall grant a certificate in Form ‘B’.
(2) The grant of certificate of  registration shall be subject to the payment of the registration fee specified in Part A of the Second Schedule, in the manner prescribed in Part B thereof.”
20[(3)  The  credit  rating  agency  who  has  already  been  granted  certificate  of registration by the Board, prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  in  Conditions  of  Registration  of  Certain Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  shall  be  deemed  to  have been granted a certificate of registration, in terms of sub-regulation (1).]
(4)  The  grant  of  a  certificate  of  21[***] registration  shall  be  subject  to  payment of the  registration  fees  as  specified  under  Part  A  of  Second  Schedule,  in  the manner prescribed in Part B thereof.] 8A 22[***] India
“(2) The certificate of initial registration granted under sub-regulation (1) shall be valid for a period of five years from the date of its issue to the applicant.”
9.  24[***]  The  certificate  granted  under  regulation  8  25[or  8A]  shall  be,  subject  to [***] 23 the following conditions, namely: (a)  the  credit  rating  agency  shall  comply  with  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  the regulations made there under  and the guidelines, directives, circulars and instructions issued by the Board from time to time on the subject of credit rating. (b) 26[***]  where  any  information  or  particulars  furnished  to  the  Board  by  a credit rating agency: (i)  is found to be false or misleading in any material particular ; or (ii)  has undergone change subsequently to its furnishing at the time of the application for a certificate; the credit rating agency shall forthwith inform the Board in writing 27[;] 28[***] 29[(c)  where  the  credit  rating  agency  proposes  30[change  in  control],  it  shall obtain  prior  approval  of  the  Board  for  continuing  to  act  as  such  after  the change.] 31[(d) the credit rating agency shall at all times maintain a minimum net worth of rupees twenty five crore. Provided  that  a  credit  rating  agency  already  registered  with  the  Board as specified in the Second Schedule of these regulations.” under  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Credit  Rating  Agencies) Regulations, 1999,  having  a  net  worth  less  than  rupees  twenty  five  crores, shall, increase its net worth to the specified amount within a period of three years from the date of notification of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018. (e)  the  promoter  of  the  credit  rating  agency,  in  terms  of  regulation  4,  shall maintain  a  minimum  shareholding  of  26%  in  the  credit  rating  agency  for  a minimum period of three years from the date of grant of registration by the Board. Provided that this clause shall not be applicable to a credit rating agency already registered with the Board under Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999, at the commencement of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit  Rating Agencies)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018. 32[(f) a credit rating agency shall not carry out any activity other than the rating of securities offered by way of public or rights issue. Nothing  contained  in  these  regulations  shall  preclude  a  credit  rating agency from rating of financial instruments under the respective guidelines of a financial sector regulator or any authority as may be specified by the Board: Provided that all other activities shall be segregated to  a separate entity within  a  period  of  two  years  from  the  date  of  notification  of  Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies)(Amendment) Regulations,
2018.]]
10. 33[***] the  date  of  notification  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of India Procedure where certificate is not granted
11.   34[(1) If, after considering an application made under regulation 3, the Board is  of  the  opinion  that  a  certificate  of  registration  should  not  be  granted,  it  may, after  giving  the  applicant  a  reasonable  opportunity  of  being  heard,  reject  the application.]
(2)  The  decision  of  the  Board,  not  to  grant  35[certificate  of  initial  or  permanent registration,   as   the   case   may   be,]   under   sub-regulation   (1)   shall   be communicated by the Board to the applicant within a period of thirty days of such decision, stating the grounds of the decision.
(3) Any applicant aggrieved by the decision of the Board rejecting his application under  sub-regulation  (1)  may,  within  a  period  of  thirty  days  from  the  date  of receipt by him of the communication referred to in sub-regulation (2) apply to the Board in writing for reconsideration of such decision.
(4)  Where  an  application  for  re-consideration  is  made  under  sub-regulation  (3)
05.07.2011. Prior to its omission, regulation 10 read as under: “Renewal of certificate
10. (1) A credit rating agency, if it desires renewal of the certificate granted to it, shall make to the Board an application for the renewal of the certificate of registration. 18 [(1A)  An  application  for  renewal  of  certificate  of  registration  made  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be as far as may be, shall be dealt with in the same manner as if it were an application for the grant of accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as specified in the Second Schedule.]
(2) Such application shall be made not less than three months before expiry of the period of validity of the certificate, specified in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 9. (3) The application for renewal made under sub-regulation (1)– (a)         shall be accompanied by a renewal fee as specified in the second schedule and (b) a fresh certificate under regulation 3.”
12. 36[***] CHAPTER III GENERAL OBLIGATIONS OF CREDIT RATING AGENCIES Code of Conduct
13.  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall  abide  by  the  Code  of  Conduct  contained  in the Third Schedule. Agreement with the client
14.  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall  enter  into  a  written  agreement  with  each client  whose  securities  it  proposes  to  rate,  and  every  such  agreement  shall include the following provisions, namely:- (a) the  rights  and  liabilities  of  each  party  in  respect  of  the  rating  of  securities shall be defined; (b) the fee to be charged by the credit rating agency shall be specified; (c)  37[the  client  shall  co-operate  with  the  credit  rating  agency  in  order  to enable  the  latter  to  carry  out  periodic  review  of  the  rating  during  the tenure of the rated instrument;] (d)  the  client  shall  38[**]  co-operate  with  the  credit  rating  agency  in  order  to enable  the  latter  to  arrive  at,  and  maintain,  a  true  and  accurate  rating  of the  clients  securities  and  shall  in  particular  provide  to  the  latter,  true, adequate and timely information for the purpose. (e) the  credit  rating  agency  shall  disclose  to the  client  the  rating  assigned  to the  securities  of  the  latter  through  regular  methods  of  dissemination, irrespective of whether the rating is or is not accepted by the client; (f) The client shall 39[**] disclose, in the offer document;- (i)  the  rating  assigned  to  the  client’s  listed  securities  by  any  credit  rating agency during the last three years and (ii) any rating given in respect of the client’s securities by any other credit rating agency, which has not been accepted by the client. 40[(g)  the  client  shall  41[**]  obtain  a  rating  for  any  issue  of  debt  securities  in accordance with the relevant regulations.] 42[(h)  The  client  shall  provide  explicit  consent  to  the  credit  rating  agency  to obtain  the  details  related  to  their  existing  and/or  future  borrowing  of  any nature,  its  repayment  and  delay  or  default,  if  any,  of  any  nature,  in servicing  of the  borrowing,  either from the lender  or  any  other statutory/non-statutory  organization  maintaining  any  such  information  to enable the credit rating agency to have timely information on the same and to  consider  the  impact  of  such  information  on  the  rating  assigned  by  the credit rating agency.] Monitoring of ratings
15. 43[(1) Every credit rating agency shall, during the lifetime of securities rated by it  continuously  monitor  the  rating  of  such  securities,  unless  the  rating  is withdrawn, subject to the provisions of regulation 16(3).]
(2)  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall  disseminate  information  regarding  newly assigned  ratings,  and  changes  in  earlier  rating  promptly  through  press  releases and  websites,  and,  in  the  case  of  securities  issued  by  listed  companies,  such information shall also be provided simultaneously to the concerned regional stock exchange and to all the stock exchanges where the said securities are listed. Procedure for review of rating
16.  44[(1)  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall  carry  out  periodic  reviews  of  all published  ratings  during  the  lifetime  of  the  securities,  unless  the  rating  is withdrawn, subject to the provisions of regulation 16(3).]
45[(2)  If  the  client  does  not  co-operate  with  the  credit  rating  agency  so  as  to enable the credit rating agency to comply with its obligations under regulation 15 of  these  regulations,  the  credit  rating  agency  shall  carry  out  the  review  on  the to the substitution, it read as “(1) Every credit rating agency shall, during the lifetime of securities rated by it continuously monitor the rating of such securities.” to the substitution, it read as “(1) Every credit rating agency shall carry out periodic reviews of all published ratings during the lifetime of the securities.” to the substitution, it read as “(2) If the client does not co-operate with the credit rating agency so as to enable the credit rating agency to comply with its obligations under regulation 15 of this regulation, the credit rating agency shall carry out the review on the basis of the best available information Provided  that  if  owing  to  such  lack  of  co-operation,  a  rating  has  been  based  on  the  best  available information, the credit rating agency shall disclose to the investors the fact that the rating is so based.” basis of the best available information or in the manner as specified by the Board from time to time. Provided  that  if  owing  to  such  lack  of  co-operation,  a  rating  has  been  based on  the  best  available  information,  the  credit  rating  agency  shall  disclose  to  the investors the fact that the rating is so based.]
46[(3) A credit rating agency shall not withdraw a rating so long as the obligations under the security rated by it are outstanding, except where the company whose security is rated is wound up or merged or amalgamated with another company, or as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] Internal procedures to be framed
17.  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall  frame  appropriate  procedures  and  systems for  monitoring  the  trading  of  securities  by  its  employees  in  the  securities  of  its clients, in order to prevent contravention of – (a) the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992; (b) the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade  Practices  relating  to  the  Securities  Market)  Regulations, 1995; and (c) other laws relevant to trading of securities. Disclosure of Rating Definitions and Rationale
18. (1) Every credit rating agency – (a)  shall  make  public  the  definitions  of  the  concerned  rating,  along  with  the symbol and, (b) shall also state that the ratings do not constitute recommendations to buy, hold or sell any securities.
(2)  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall  make  available  to  the  general  public information  relating  to  the  rationale  of  the  ratings,  which  shall  cover  an  analysis to the substitution, it read as “(3) A credit rating agency shall not withdraw a rating so long as the obligations under the security rated by it are outstanding, except where the company whose security is rated is wound up or merged or amalgamated with another company.” of  the  various  factors  justifying  a  favourable  assessment,  as  well  as  factors constituting a risk. Submission of information to the Board
19.  (1)  Where  any  information  is  called  for  by  the  Board  from  a  credit  rating agency  for  the  purposes  of  these  regulations,  including  any  report  relating  to  its activities, the credit rating agency shall furnish such information to the Board – (a) within a period specified by the Board or (b) if no such period is specified, then within a reasonable time.
(2)  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall,  at  the  close  of  each  accounting  period, furnish to the Board copies of its balance sheet and profit and loss account. Compliance with circulars etc., issued by the Board
20.  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall  comply  with  such  guidelines,  directives, circulars  and  instructions  as  may  be  issued  by  the  Board  from  time  to  time,  on the subject of credit rating.
47[20A. Appointment of Compliance Officer
(1)  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be responsible  for  monitoring  the  compliance  of  the  Act,  rules  and  regulations, notifications,  guidelines,  instructions  etc.  issued  by  the  Board  or  the  Central Government.
(2)  The  compliance  officer  shall  immediately  and  independently  report  to  the Board any non-compliance observed by him.] Maintenance of Books of Accounts records, etc.
21.  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall  keep  and  maintain,  for a  minimum  period of five years, the following books of accounts, records and documents, namely: (a) copy of its balance sheet, as on the end of each accounting period; (b) a copy of its profit and loss account for each accounting period; (c) a copy of the auditor’s report on its accounts for each accounting period.
29.05.2001. (d) a copy of the agreement entered into, with each client; (e) information supplied by each of the clients; (f)  correspondence with each client; (g) ratings  assigned  to  various  securities  including  upgradation  and  down gradation (if any) of the ratings so assigned. (h) rating notes considered by the rating committee; (i)  record of decisions of the rating committee; (i)  letter assigning rating; (k) particulars of fees charged for rating and such other records as the Board may specify from time to time.
(2)  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall  intimate  to  the  Board  the  place  where  the books of account, records and documents required to be maintained under these regulations are being maintained. Steps on auditor’s report
22.  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall,  within  two  month’s  from  the  date  of  the auditor’s  report,  take  steps  to  rectify  the  deficiencies  if  any,  made  out  in  the auditor’s report, insofar as they relate to the activity of rating of securities. Confidentiality
23. Every credit rating agency shall treat, as confidential, information supplied to it  by  the  client  and  no  credit  rating  agency  shall  disclose  the  same  to  any  other person,  except  where  such  disclosure  is  required  or  permitted  by  under  or  any law for the time being in force. Rating process
24. (1) Every credit rating agency shall – (a) specify the rating process; (b) file a copy of the same with the Board for record; and file with the Board any modifications or additions made therein from time to time.
(2) Every credit rating agency shall, in all cases, follow a proper rating process.
(3)  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall  have  professional  rating  committees, comprising members  who  are  adequately qualified  and  knowledgeable  to  assign a rating.
(4) All rating decisions, including the decisions regarding changes in rating, shall be taken by the rating committee.
(5) Every credit rating agency shall be staffed by analysts qualified to carry out a rating assignment.
(6)   Every   credit   rating   agency   shall   inform   the   Board   about   new   rating instruments or symbols introduced by it.
(7)  Every  credit  rating  agency,  shall,  while  rating  a  security,  exercise  due diligence in order to ensure that the rating given by the credit rating agency is fair and appropriate.
(8) A credit rating agency shall not rate securities issued by it.
(9) Rating definition, as well as the structure for a particular rating product, shall not be changed by a credit rating agency, without prior information to the Board.
(10)  A  credit rating  agency  shall  disclose  to  the  concerned  stock  exchange through press release and websites for general investors, the rating assigned to the securities of a client, after periodic review, including changes in rating, if any. 48[Shareholding in a credit rating agency
24A. (1) A credit rating agency shall not: (a) directly or indirectly, hold 10 per cent or more shareholding and/ or voting rights in any other credit rating agency, or (b) have representation on the Board of any other credit rating agency. Provided that a credit rating agency may, with the prior approval of the Board, acquire  shares  and/  or  voting  rights  exceeding  10  per  cent  in  any  other  credit rating  agency  only  if  such  acquisition  results  in  change  in  control  in  the  credit rating  agency  whose  shares  are  being  acquired.  On  the  basis  of  the  prior approval  sought  by  the  acquirer,  the  Board  may  approve  the  acquisition  in  the interest of investors, market integrity and stability.
(2)  A  shareholder  holding  10  per  cent  or  more  shares  and/  or  voting  rights  in  a credit  rating  agency  shall  not  hold  10  per  cent  or  more  shares  and/  or  voting rights, directly or indirectly, in any other credit rating agency. Provided that the said restriction shall not apply to holdings by Pension Funds, Insurance Schemes and Mutual Fund Schemes. a credit rating agency registered with the Board.] CHAPTER IV RESTRICTION ON RATING OF SECURITIES ISSUED BY PROMOTERS OR BY CERTAIN OTHER PERSONS Definitions
25. In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires;- (a) "associate" , in relation to a promoter, includes a body corporate in which the promoter holds ten percent or more, of the share capital; (b) "promoter" means a person who holds ten percent or more, of the shares of the credit rating agency. Securities issued by promoter
26. (1) No credit rating agency shall rate a security issued by its promoter.
(2)  In  case  promoter  is  a  lending  institution,  its  Chairman,  director  or  employee shall not be a Chairman, director or employee of credit rating agency or its rating committee. Provided  that  sub-regulation  (2)  shall  come  into  force  within  three  months from commencement of these regulations. Securities  issued  by  certain  entities,  connected  with  a  promoter,  or  rating agency not to be rated
27. (1) No credit rating agency shall, rate a security issued by an entity, which is;- (a) a borrower of its promoter; or (b) a subsidiary of its promoter; or (c) an associate of its promoter, if (i)  there  are  common  Chairman,  Directors  between  credit  rating  agency and these entities. (ii)  there are common employees. (iii) there  are  common  Chairman,  Directors,  Employees  on  the  rating committee.
(2)  No  credit  rating  agency  shall  rate  a  security  issued  by  its  associate  or subsidiary,  if  the  credit  rating  agency  or  its  rating  committee  has  a  Chairman, director  or  employee  who  is  also  a  Chairman,  director  or  employee  of any  such entity. 49[Provided  that  the  Credit  Rating  Agency  may,  subject  to  the  provisions  of sub-regulation  (1),  rate  a  security  issued  by  its  associate  having  a  common independent director with it or rating committee if,- (i)  such  an  independent  director  does  not  participate  in  the  discussion  on rating decisions, and (ii) the Credit Rating Agency makes a disclosure in the rating announcement of  such  associate  (about  the  existence  of  common  independent  director) on its Board or of its rating committee, and that the common independent director  did  not  participate  in  the  rating  process  or  in  the  meeting  of  its Board  of  Directors  or  in  the  meeting  of  the  rating  committee,  when  the securities rating of such associate was discussed. ‘independent  director’  means  a  director  who,  apart  from  receiving  remuneration as  a  director,  does  not  have  any  other  material  pecuniary  relationship  or transactions with the company, its promoters, its management or its subsidiaries, which in the judgment of the board of the company, may affect the independence of the judgment of such director. Securities already rated
28.  Nothing  in  this  Chapter  shall  apply  to  securities  whose  rating  has  been already  done  by  a  credit  rating  agency  before  the  commencement  of  these regulations,  and  such  securities  may,  subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  other Chapters  of  these  regulations,  continue  to  be  rated,  without  the  need  to  comply with the restrictions imposed by the regulations contained in this chapter. CHAPTER V PROCEDURE FOR INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION Board’s right to inspect
29.  (1)  The  Board  may  appoint  one  or  more  persons  as  inspecting  officers,  to undertake  inspection  or  investigation  of  the  books  of  account,  records  and documents of the credit rating agencies, for any of the purposes specified in sub- regulation (2).
(2) The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be the following, namely: (a) to  ascertain  whether  the  books  of  account,  records  and  documents  are being maintained properly; (b)to  ascertain  whether  the  provisions  of  the  Act  and  these  regulations  are being complied with; (c) to investigate into complaints received from investors, clients or any other person  on  any  matter  having  a  bearing  on  activities  of  the  credit  rating agency; (d) in the interest of the securities market or in the interest of investors.
(3)  The  inspections  ordered  by  the  Board  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  not ordinarily  go  into  an  examination  of  the  appropriateness  of  the  assigned  ratings on the merits.
(4) Inspections to judge the appropriateness of the ratings may be ordered by the Board, only in case of complaints which are serious in nature.
(5) Inspections referred to in sub-regulation (4) shall be carried out either by the officers  of  the  Board  or  independent  experts,  with  relevant  experience  or combination of both. Notice before inspection or investigation
30.  (1)  Before  ordering  an  inspection  or  investigation  under  regulation  29,  the Board shall give not less than ten days written notice to the credit rating agency for that purpose.
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1)  where  the  Board  is satisfied  that  in  the  interest  of  the  investors,  no  such  notice  should  be  given,  it may, by an order in writing, direct that the inspection or investigation of the affairs of the credit rating agency be taken up without such notice.
(3)  During  the  course  of  an  inspection  or  investigation,  the  credit  rating  agency against  whom  the  inspection  or  investigation is  being  carried  out  shall  be  bound to discharge all its obligations as provided in regulation 31. Obligations  of  credit  rating  agency  on  inspection  or  investigation  by  the Board
31.  (1) It  shall  be the  duty of  every  credit  rating  agency  whose  affairs are  being inspected  or  investigated,  and  of  every  director,  officer  or  employee  thereof,  to produce to the inspecting or investigating officer such books, accounts and other documents  in  its  or  his  custody  or  control  and  furnish  him  with  such  statements and  information  relating  to  its  rating  activities,  as  the  inspecting  officer  may require within such reasonable period as may be specified by the said officer.
(2) The credit rating agency shall – (a) allow  the  inspecting  officer  to  have  reasonable  access  to  the  premises occupied by such credit rating agency or by any other person on its behalf; (b) extend  to  the  inspecting  officer  reasonable  facility  for  examining  any books,  records,  documents  and  computer  data  in  the  possession  of  the credit rating agency; and (c) provide copies of documents or other materials which, in the opinion of the inspecting  officer,  are  relevant  for  the  purposes  of  the  inspection  or investigation, as the case may be.
(3)  The  inspecting  officer,  in  the  course  of  inspection  or  investigation,  shall  be entitled to examine, or record the statements, of any officer, director or employee of  the  credit  rating  agency  for  the  purposes  connected  with  the  inspection  or investigation.
(4) Every director, officer or employee of the credit rating agency shall be bound to render to the inspecting officer all assistance in connection with the inspection or investigation which the inspecting officer may reasonably require. Submission of Report to the Board
32.  The  inspecting  officer  shall,  as  soon  as  possible,  on  completion  of  the inspection or investigation, submit a report to the Board. Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he may submit an interim report. 50[Action on inspection or investigation report
33.  The  Board  or  the  Chairman  shall  after  consideration  of  inspection  or investigation report take such action as the Board or Chairman may deem fit and appropriate  including  action  under  51[Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.] CHAPTER VI PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 52[Liability for action in case of default
34.  A  credit  rating  agency  which  contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of  the  Act, Rules,  or  Regulations  framed  thereunder  shall  be  liable  for one  or  more  actions specified  therein  including  the  action  under  Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.]
35. to 42. 53[***]
36. Cancellation of Registration.─(1) A penalty of cancellation of certificate of registration of a credit rating agency may be imposed by the Board, if: (a)  the credit  rating agency  is guilty  of  fraud, or  has  been convicted  of  an offence  involving moral turpitude or an economic offence; or (b) in case of repeated defaults of the  nature mentioned in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 34. (c) the credit rating agency is declared insolvent or wound up;
(2) The Board shall furnish to the credit rating agency reasons in writing for cancellation of registration.
37.  Manner  of  Making  Order  of  Suspension  and  Cancellation.─No  order  of  suspension  or  of cancellation of the certificate of registration, shall be passed by the Board, except after holding an enquiry in accordance with the procedure specified in regulation 38. Provided  that  the  holding  of  such  an  enquiry  shall  not  be  necessary  in  cases  where:  (a)  the  credit rating agency is declared insolvent or is wound up; or (b)  the  credit  rating  agency  fails  to  pay  to  the  Board  registration  fees  or  renewal  fee  as  per  these regulations. Provided  further  that  an  opportunity  of  hearing  shall  be  given  before  any  action  against  the credit rating agency is taken.
38.  Manner  of  Holding  enquiry  before  Suspension  or  Cancellation.─(1)  For  the  purpose  of holding an enquiry under regulation 37, the Board may appoint one or more enquiry officers.
(2) The enquiry officer shall issue to the credit rating agency a notice at the registered office or the  principal place  of  business  of  the  credit  rating  agency,  setting  out  the  grounds  on  which action is proposed to be taken against it and calling upon it to show cause against such action within a period of fourteen days from the date of receipt of such notice.
(3) The credit rating agency, may, within fourteen days from the date of receipt of such notice, furnish to the enquiry  officer  a  written  reply,  together  with  copies  of  documentary  or  other  evidence  relied  on  by  it  or sought by the Board from the credit rating agency.
(4)  The  enquiry  officer  shall  give  a  reasonable  opportunity  of  hearing  to  the  credit  rating agency,  to enable  it to make  its  submission in  support of its  reply made  under  sub-regulation (3).
(5) Before the enquiry officer, the credit rating agency may either appear in person or through any person duly authorised on this behalf. Provided  that  no  lawyer  or advocate  shall  be  permitted  to represent the  credit  rating agency  at  the enquiry; Provided further that where a lawyer or an advocate has been appointed by the board as a presenting officer  under  sub-regulation  (6),  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  credit  rating  agency  to present his case through a lawyer or advocate.
(6) If it is considered necessary, the enquiry officer may request the Board to appoint a presenting officer to present its case.
(7) The  enquiry  officer  shall, after taking into account all  relevant  facts and  submissions made by the credit rating agency, submit a report to the Board and recommend the penalty, if any to be  imposed  upon  the  credit  rating  agency  as  also  the  grounds  on  the  basis  of  which  the proposed penalty is justified.
39.  Show-cause  notice  and  order.─(1)  On  receipt  of  the  report  from  the  enquiry  officer,  the  Board  shall consider the same and issue a show-cause notice to the credit rating agency, as to why the penalty as proposed by the enquiry officer should not be imposed.
(2) The credit rating agency shall, within fourteen days of the date of receipt of the show-cause notice, send a reply to the Board.
(3) The Board, after considering the reply of the credit rating agency to the show-cause notice, shall as soon as possible pass such order as it deems fit.
(4) Every order passed by the Board under sub-regulation (3) shall be self-contained and shall give  reasons for  the  conclusions  stated  therein,  including  justification  of  the  penalty  if  any imposed by that order.
(5) The  Board  shall  send  to  the  credit  rating  agency  a  copy  of  the  order  passed  under  sub- regulation (3).
40.  Effect  of  suspension  and  cancellation  of  registration  of  credit  rating  agency.─(1)  On  and  from the date of suspension of the certificate of registration, the credit rating agency shall cease to  carry  on  any  rating  activity  during  the  period  of  suspension  and  shall  be  subject  to  such directions of the Board with regard to any records, documents securities or reports that may be connected with in its rating activities, as the Board may specify. POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 54[CHAPTER VII Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
43. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation in technological aspects relating to testing new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
(2) Any exemption granted by the  Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to  the  applicant  satisfying  such  conditions  as  may  be  specified  by  the  Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. a  live  testing  environment  where  new  products,  processes,  services,  business
(2) On and from the date of cancellation of the certificate of registration, the credit rating agency shall: - (a) cease to carry in any rating activity and (b) shall be subject to such directions of the Board with regard to the transfer of records, documents, securities or reports connected with its rating activities which may be in its custody or control as the Board may specify.
(3)  Notwithstanding  the  suspension  or  cancellation  of  certificate  of  a  credit  rating  agency,  if  the  Board  is satisfied that it is in the interest of the investors to grant such permission, the Board may grant to the credit rating  agency  permission  to  carry  on  such  activities  relating  its  assignments  undertaken  prior  to  such suspension or cancellation, as the Board may specify.
41.   Publication   of   Order   of   Suspension   or   Cancellation.─The   order   of   suspension   or cancellation of  certificate  of  registration,  passed  under  sub-regulation  (3)  of  regulation  (39)  shall  be  published  by  the Board in at least two daily newspapers.
42.  Appeal  to  the  Securities  Appellate  Tribunal.─Any  person  aggrieved  by  an  order  of  the  Board made,  on  and  after  the  commencement  of  the  Securities  Laws  (Second  Amendment) Act, 1999, (i.e., after 16th December 1999), under these regulations may prefer an appeal to a Securities Appellate Tribunal having jurisdiction  in  the  matter.  [Prior  to  this,  regulation  42  as  amended  by  the  SEBI  (Appeal  to  Securities Appellate  Tribunal)  (Amendment)  Regulations,
3. On and from the commencement of these regulations, there shall be charged on every recognised stock exchange, a regulatory fee payable to the Board, at such rates and within such time as is mentioned in regulation 4. Rate of regulatory fee
4. (1) A recognised stock exchange having an annual turnover mentioned in column (2) of the following Table shall pay to the Board, within thirty days of conclusion of the relevant financial year, an amount mentioned in the corresponding entry in column (3) of the said Table: Sl. No. Annual Turnover (Rupees in crores) Amount of fee (Rs.)
(1)
1.
2.
3.
4. (2) Less than or equal to 10,000
(3) 1,00,000/- More than 10,000 but less than or equal to 1,00,000 10,00,000/- More than 1,00,000 but less than or equal to 5,00,000 50,00,000/- More  than  5,00,000  but  less  than  or  equal  to 1,00,00,000/- 10,00,000
5. 1[More than 10,00,000 1,00,00,000 plus
0.000012 per cent of the annual turnover in excess  of 10,00,000 crores] mean  the  aggregate  value  of  the  transactions  2[excluding  turnover  on  agricultural commodity  derivatives]  which  took  place  on  the  recognised  stock  exchange  during  the relevant financial year:
01-04-2019. Prior to this, it read as: Sl. No. Annual Turnover (Rupees in crores) Amount of fee (Rs.)
(1)
5. (2)
(3) More than 10,00,000 *[Rs1,00,00,000 plus 0.00006% of the annual turnover in excess of Rs. 10,00,000 crores, subject to a maximum of Rs.20,00,00,000] Regulations, 2018, w.r.e.f. April 01, 2018 3[Provided that the recognized stock exchanges shall pay a flat regulatory fee of one lac rupees on aggregate value of the transactions on agricultural commodity derivatives.] 4[***]
(2) A recognised stock exchange shall also pay to the Board, within fifteen days of end of each quarter of a financial year, an amount equal to ten per cent of the aggregate of listing fees collected by it from issuers whose securities are listed on it, during that quarter: Provided  that  the  fees  due  under  sub-regulation  (2)  in  respect  of  the  last  quarter  of  a financial year may be paid within thirty days of conclusion of the quarter, together with the fees due under sub-regulation (1). mean all fees collected by a recognised stock exchange from any company or other entity whose securities are listed thereon, towards listing of such securities. Manner of payment of fee
5. 5[(1) The fee mentioned in regulation 4 shall be paid by a recognised stock exchange by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other  mode allowed  by  RBI  or  by  means  of  a  demand  draft  drawn  in  favour  of  “Securities  and Exchange  Board  of  India”,  payable  at  Mumbai  and  the  intimation  of  remittance  or  the demand draft, as applicable, shall be forwarded along with the statement of computation of the fee.]
(2) The statement of computation of fees mentioned in sub-regulation (1) shall be certified to be correct by a chartered accountant. CHAPTER III MISCELLANEOUS Other duties of recognised stock exchanges
6.  (1)  Every  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  maintain  such  registers  and  furnish  such returns  or  information  to  the  Board  in  respect  of  its  annual  turnover,  the  listing  fees collected by it and the fee paid or payable under these regulations, as may be specified by the Board.
(2) Without prejudice to sub-regulation (1), a recognised stock exchange shall also be liable to furnish such information or explanations to the Board as may be required by it in respect of its regulated functions and the fee paid or payable under these regulations.
3. (1) No person shall act as underwriter unless he holds a certificate granted by the Board under these regulations.
(2)  Notwithstanding anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  every stock broker or merchant banker holding a valid certificate of registration under section 12 of the  Act,  shall  be  entitled  to  act  as  an  underwriter  without  obtaining  a  separate certificate under these regulations.
(3)  A  stock  broker  or  merchant  banker  acting  as  an  underwriter  under  sub- regulation (2) shall be governed by these regulations in other respects.] Application for grant of certificate 10[of 11[***] registration]. 6 Substituted, ibid.  Prior to substitution, it read as under: “(f)  “rules”  means Securities and Exchange Board of  India(Underwriters) Rules. 1993”
7-9-2006. 8 Words “or the rules, as the case may be” were omitted, ibid.
12[3A.]  (1)  An  application  by  an  underwriter  for  grant  of  a  certificate  13[of  14[***] registration] shall be made to the Board in Form A. 15[(1A)  An  application  for  registration  made  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as specified in Schedule II.]
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  any  application made  by  an  underwriter  prior  to  the  coming  into  force  of  these  regulations containing  such  particulars  or  as  near  thereto  as  mentioned  in  Form  A  shall  be treated as an application made in pursuance of sub-regulation (1) and dealt with accordingly. Furnishing of further information, clarification, etc.
4.  (1)  The  Board  may  require  the  applicant  to  furnish  further  information  or clarification regarding matters relevant to underwriting to consider the application for grant of a certificate.
16[(2)  If  the  Board,  on  receipt  of  further  information,  is  of  the  opinion  that  the information so furnished is not sufficient to decide on the application and seeking further  information  through  correspondence  is  likely  to  delay  the  matter,  it  may require the applicant or its principal officer to appear before the Board in order to give an opportunity to the applicant to give further clarifications on the application made under 17[regulation 3A].] Application to conform to the requirements.
5.  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  18[sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  3A],  any application,  which  is  not  complete  in  all  respects  and  does  not  conform  to  the instructions specified in the form, shall be rejected: Provided that before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given an  opportunity  to  remove  within  19[one  month]  such  objections  as  may  be indicated by the Board : 20[Provided  further  that  the  Board  may,  on  sufficient  reasons  being  shown, extend the time by another one month in order to enable the applicant to comply with the requirements of the Board.] Consideration of application.
6. The Board shall take into account for considering the grant of a certificate, all matters  which  are  relevant  to  or  relating  to  underwriting  and  in  particular  the following, namely, whether the applicant— (a)  has  the  necessary  infrastructure,  like  adequate  office  space,  equipments and manpower to effectively discharge his activities; (b)  has  any  past  experience  in  the  underwriting  or  has  in  his  employment minimum two persons who had the experience in underwriting; (c)  or  any  person,  directly  or  indirectly  connected  with  the  applicant  has  not been granted registration by the Board under the Act. account whether a previous application for a certificate of any person directly or indirectly connected with the applicant has been rejected by the Board or any disciplinary action has been taken against such person under the Act or any of the rules or any of the regulations made under the Act;] (d)  fulfils the capital adequacy requirements specified in regulation 7; (e)  or  any  of  its  director,  partner  or  principal  officer  is  or  has  at  any  time  been convicted for any offence involving moral turpitude or has been found guilty of any economic offence; 22[(f) is a fit and proper person.] 23[Criteria for fit and proper person.
6A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the underwriter is a fit  and  proper  person  the  Board  may  take  into  account  the  criteria  specified  in Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.] Capital adequacy requirement.
7.  (1)  The  capital  adequacy  requirement  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (d)  of regulation 6 shall not be less than the net worth of rupees twenty lakhs.
24[(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  every  stock- broker, who acts as an underwriter shall fulfil the capital adequacy requirements specified by the stock exchange of which he is a member.] (a)  in  the  case  of  an  applicant  being  a  proprietary  concern  or  a  firm  or  an association  of  persons  or  any  body  of  individuals,  the  value  of  capital contributed  to  such  business  by  the  applicant  and  the  free  reserves  of  any kind belonging to the business of the applicant; and (b)  in the case of a body corporate, the value of the paid-up capital and the free reserves as disclosed in the books of account of the applicant at the time of making the application under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 3. 25[ 8. Grant of certificate of 26[***] registration.
(1)  The  Board,  on  being  satisfied  that  the  applicant  is  eligible,  shall  send  an intimation to the applicant, within one month of such satisfaction, mentioning that it has been found eligible for grant of certificate of  27[***] registration and grant a certificate in Form B.
(2) 28[The certificate of registration granted under sub-regulation (1) shall be valid unless it is suspended or cancelled by the Board.]
(3) 29[The underwriter who has already been granted certificate of registration by the Board, prior to the commencement of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Intermediaries) in  Conditions  of  Registration  of  Certain (Change (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  granted  a certificate of registration, in terms of sub-regulation (1).]
(4)  The  grant  of  certificate  of  30[***]  registration  shall  be  subject  to  payment  of fees specified in regulation 12.]
8A. 31[***]
9. 32[***] 33[Conditions of registration. Renewal of certificate.
9. (1) An underwriter may, if he so desires, make an application in Form A for renewal of certificate before three months of the expiry of the period of certificate. (1A) An application for renewal made under sub-regulation (1) shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as specified in Schedule II.
(2)  The  application  for  renewal  of  certificate  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  dealt  with  in  the  same manner as if it were an application for grant of a certificate made under regulation 3.
9A.  (1)  34[Registration  granted  under  regulation  8]  shall  be  subject  to  the following conditions, namely:— (a)  where  the  underwriter  proposes  35[change  in  control],  it  shall  obtain  prior approval of the Board for continuing to act as such after the change; (b)  it shall enter into a valid agreement with the body corporate on whose behalf it is acting as underwriter; (c)  36[it  shall  pay  the  fees  for  registration,  in  the  manner  provided  in  these regulations;] (d)  it shall maintain capital adequacy requirements specified in regulation 7 at all times during the period of the 37[***]; (e)  it  shall  abide  by  the  regulations  made  under  the  Act  in  respect  of  the activities carried on by it as underwriter; 38[(f)  (f)  it  shall  immediately  intimate  the  Board,  details  of  changes  that  have that  was  submitted,  while  seeking information taken  place registration.] in the
(2) Nothing contained in clause (a) of sub-regulation (1) shall affect the obligation to  obtain  a  fresh  registration  under  section  12  of  the  Act  in  cases  where  it  is applicable. 9B  39[***] registration  granted  under  regulation  8A”  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In Procedure where registration is not granted.
10.  40[  (1)  Where  an  application  for  grant  of  a  certificate  of  registration  under regulation  3A  does  not  fulfil  the  requirements  set  out  in  regulation  6,  the  Board shall reject the application after giving an opportunity of being heard.]
41[(2) The decision shall be communicated by the Board within thirty days of such decision stating therein the grounds on which the application has been rejected.]
(3) Any applicant may, being aggrieved by the decision of the Board under sub- regulation (2), apply within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of such intimation, to the Board for reconsideration of its decision.
(4) On receipt  of  the  application made  under  sub-regulation (3),  the  Board  shall reconsider its decision and communicate its findings thereon as soon as possible in writing to the applicant.
11. 42[***] Payment of fees, and the consequences of failure to pay fees.
12.  43[“(1)  Every  applicant  eligible  for  grant  of  registration,  shall  pay  the  fees  in such manner and within the period specified in Schedule II:] 44[***] Provided  45[***]  that  a  stock  broker  46[***],  who  has  been  granted  a  certificate under  section  12  of  the  Act  and  pays  fees  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange Board  of  India  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-brokers)  Regulations,  1992  47[***],  shall not be required to pay fees under sub-regulation (1).
(2) Where an underwriter fails to pay the fees as provided in sub-regulation (1), the Board may suspend the certificate, whereupon the underwriter shall forthwith cease to act as an underwriter. CHAPTER III GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES To abide by the Code of Conduct.
13. Every underwriter shall at all times abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in Schedule III. Agreement with clients.
14. Every underwriter shall enter into an agreement referred to in 48[clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 9A] with each body corporate on whose behalf he is  acting  as  underwriter  and  the  said  agreement  shall,  amongst  other  things, provide for the following, namely :— (i)  the period for which the agreement shall be in force; 43  Substituted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of  Registration  Of 49[(ia)  the  allocation  of  duties  and  responsibilities  between  the  underwriter  and the client;] (ii)  the amount of underwriting obligations; (iii)  the  period,  within  which  the  underwriter  has  to  subscribe  to  the  issue  after being intimated by or on behalf of such body corporate; (iv)  the amount of commission or brokerage payable to the underwriter; (v)  details  of  arrangements,  if  any,  made  by  the  underwriter  for  fulfilling  the underwriting obligations. General responsibilities of an underwriter.
15.  (1)  The  underwriter  shall  not  derive  any  direct  or  indirect  benefit  from underwriting the issue other than the commission or brokerage payable under an agreement for underwriting.
(2)  The  total  underwriting  obligations  under  all  the  agreements  referred  to  in clause  (b)  of  rule  4  shall  not  exceed  twenty  times  the  net  worth  referred  to  in regulation 7.
(3) Every underwriter, in the event of being called upon to subscribe for securities of a body corporate pursuant to an agreement referred to in  50[clause (b) of sub- regulation (1) of regulation 9A] shall subscribe to such securities within 45 days of the receipt of such intimation from such body corporate. To maintain proper books of account and records, etc.
16.  (1)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  any  other  law,  every  underwriter  shall  keep and maintain the following books of account and documents, namely:— (a)  in relation to underwriter being a body corporate— (i)  a copy of the balance sheet and profit and loss account as specified in sections 211 and 212 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956); (ii)  a  copy  of  the  auditor’s  report  referred  to  in  section  227  of  the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956); (b)  in relation to an underwriter not being a body corporate— (i)  records in respect of all sums of money received and expended by them and  the  matters  in  respect  of  which  the  receipt  and  expenditure  take place; and (ii)  their assets and liabilities.
(2) Without prejudice to sub-regulation (1), every underwriter shall, after the close of each financial year as soon as possible but not later than six months from the close of the said period furnish to the Board, if so required, copies of the balance sheet,  profit  and  loss  account,  statement  of  capital  adequacy  requirement  and such other documents as may be required by the Board under regulation 16.
(3) Every underwriter shall also maintain the following records with respect to— (i)  details  of  all  agreements referred  to  in  51[clause  (b)  of  sub-regulation (1) of regulation 9A] ; (ii)  total amount of securities of each body corporate subscribed to in pursuance of an agreement referred to in 52[clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 9A]; (iii)  statement of capital adequacy requirements as specified in regulation 7; (iv)  such other records as may be specified by the Board for underwriting.
(4)  Every  underwriter  shall  intimate  to  the  Board,  the  place  where  the  books  of account, records and documents are maintained. Period of maintenance of books of account, records and other documents.
17. Every underwriter shall preserve the books of account and other records and documents mentioned under this chapter for a minimum period of five years. 53[Appointment of compliance officer.
17A.  (1)  Every  underwriter  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be responsible  for  monitoring  the  compliance  of  the  Act,  rules  and  regulations, notifications,  guidelines,  instructions,  etc.,  issued  by  the  Board  or  the  Central Government and for redressal of investors’ grievances.
(2)  The  compliance  officer  shall  immediately  and  independently  report  to  the Board any non-compliance observed by him.] Power to call for information.
18.  (1)  The  Board  may  at  any  time  call  for  any  information  from  an  underwriter with respect to any matter relating to underwriting business.
(2)  Where  any  information  is  called  for  under  sub-regulation  (1)  it  shall  be  the duty of the underwriter to furnish such information. CHAPTER IV INSPECTION AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS Board’s right to inspect.
19.  (1)  Where  it  appears  to  the  Board  so  to  do,  it  may  appoint  one  or  more persons  as  inspecting  authority  to  undertake  the  inspection  of  the  books  of account, other records and documents of the underwriter for any of the purposes specified in sub-regulation (2).
(2) The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be as follows, namely :— 52 ibid.
05-2001. (a)  to  ensure  that  the  books  of  account  and  other  records  and  documents  are being maintained in the manner required; (b)  that the provisions of the Act, rules and regulations are being complied with; (c)  to investigate into the complaints received from investors, other underwriters or  any  other  person  or  any  matter  having  a  bearing  on  the  activities  of  the underwriter; and (d)  to  investigate  suo  motu  in  the  interest  of  securities  business  or  investors’ interest into the affairs of the underwriter. Procedure for inspection.
20.  (1)  Before  undertaking  an  inspection  under  regulation  19,  the  Board  shall give a reasonable notice to the underwriter, for that purpose.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), where the Board is satisfied  that  in  the  interest  of  the  investors  or  in  the  public  interest  no  such notice should be given, it may by an order in writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the underwriter be taken up without such notice.
(3)  On  being empowered  by  the  Board,  the  inspecting  authority  shall  undertake the  inspection  and  the  underwriter  against  whom  an  inspection  is  being  carried out shall be bound to discharge his obligations as provided under regulation 21. Obligations of underwriter on inspection by the Board.
21.  (1)  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  director,  proprietor,  partner,  officer  and employee of the underwriter who is being inspected to produce to the inspecting authority  such  books,  accounts  and  other  documents  in  his  custody  or  control and  furnish  him  with  the  statements  and  information  relating  to  an  underwriter within such time as the inspecting authority may require.
(2)  The  underwriter  shall  allow  the  inspecting  authority  to  have  a  reasonable access to the premises occupied by such underwriter or by any other person, on his behalf and also extend reasonable facility for examining any books, records, documents and computer data in the possession of the underwriter or any such other  person  on  their  behalf  and  also  provide  copies  of  documents  or  other materials  which  in  the  opinion  of  the  inspecting  authority  are  relevant  for  the purposes of the inspection.
(3)  The  inspecting  authority  shall  in  the  course  of  inspection,  be  entitled  to examine or record statements of any principal officer, director, partner, proprietor and employee.
(4) It shall be the duty of every director, proprietor, partner, officer or employee of the  underwriter  to  give  to  the  inspecting  authority  all  assistance  in  connection with the inspection which the underwriter may reasonably be expected to give. Submission of report to the Board.
22.  The  inspecting  authority  shall,  as  soon  as  may  be  possible,  submit  an inspection report to the Board. 54[Action on inspection or investigation report.
23.  The  Board  or  the  Chairman  shall  after  consideration  of  inspection  or investigation report take such action as the Board or Chairman may deem fit and appropriate  including  action under  55[Chapter V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.]] Appointment of Auditor.
24. Notwithstanding anything contained above the Board may appoint a qualified auditor to investigate into the books of account or the affairs of the underwriter: Provided  that  the  auditor  so  appointed  shall  have  the  same  powers  of  the inspecting  authority  as  stated  in  regulation  19  and  the  obligation  of  the underwriter  and  his  employees  in  regulation  21  shall  be  applicable  to  the investigation under this regulation. auditor”  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  given  to  it  in  section  226  of  the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956). CHAPTER V PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 56[Liability for action in case of default.
25.  An  underwriter  who  contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  Rules  or Regulations  framed  thereunder  shall be  liable  for  one  or  more  actions  specified therein  including  the  action  under  Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.]
26. to 32. 57[***] 58[CHAPTER VI POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
33.  (1)  The  Board  may,  exempt  any  person  or  class  of  persons  from  the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be  specified  but  not  exceeding  twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new  products,  processes,  services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
3. (1) These regulations shall be applicable to buy-back of shares or other specified securities of a company listed on a stock exchange.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), a company listed on a stock exchange shall not buy-back its shares or other specified securities so as to delist its shares or other specified securities from the stock exchange.] Company may buy-back its own 11[shares or other specified securities]
4. (1) A company may buy-back its 12[shares or other specified securities] by any one of the following methods :— (a)  from the existing 13[security-holders] on a proportionate basis through the tender offer; (b)  from the open market through— (i)  book-building process, (ii)  stock exchange; (c)  from odd-lot holders: 14[Provided that no offer of buy-back for fifteen per cent or more of the paid up capital and free reserves of the company shall be made from the open market.]
(2) A company shall not buy-back its 15[shares or other specified securities] from any person  through  negotiated  deals,  whether  on  or  of  the  stock  exchange  or  through spot transactions or through any private arrangement.
(3) Any person or an insider shall not deal in securities of the company on the basis of  unpublished  information  relating  to  buy-back  of  16[shares  or  other  specified securities] of the company.
17[(4) A company shall not make any offer of buy-back within a period of one year reckoned from the date of closure of the preceding offer of buy-back, if any.] Special resolution
5.  (1)  For  the  purposes  of  passing  a  special  resolution  under  sub-section  (2)  of section 77A of the Companies Act, the explanatory statement to be annexed to the notice for the general meeting pursuant to section 173 of the Companies Act shall contain disclosures as specified in 18[Schedule II, Part A].
(2) A copy of the resolution passed at the general meeting under sub-section (2) of section  77A  of  the  Companies  Act,  shall  be  filed  with  the  Board  and  the  stock exchanges  where  the  19[shares  or  other  specified  securities]  of  the  company  are listed, within seven days from the date of passing of the resolution. 20[Board resolution
5A. A company, authorized by a resolution passed by the Board of Directors at its meeting  to  buy  back  its  shares  or  other  specified  securities  under  first  proviso  to clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 77A of the Companies Act, 1956, as inserted by the Companies (Amendment) Act, 2001, shall file a  copy of the resolution, with the Board and the stock exchanges, where the shares or other specified securities of following: Board resolution
5A. (1) A company, authorised by a resolution passed by the Board of Directors at its meeting, to buy back its 20[shares or other specified securities under first proviso to clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 77A of the other specified securities subject to the following conditions: (a) before making a public announcement under sub regulation (1) of regulation 8, a public notice shall be given in atleast one English national daily, one Hindi national daily and a regional language daily, all with wide circulation at the place where the registered office of the company is situated, the public notice shall be given within 2 days of the passing of the resolution by the Board of Directors; the public notice shall contain the disclosures as specified in schedule I. (b) (c)
(2) A copy of the resolution, passed by the Board of Directors at its meeting, authorising buy back of its shares or other specified securities, shall be filed with the Board and the stock exchanges where the shares or other specified securities of the company are listed, within two days of the date of the passing of the resolution. CHAPTER III BUY-BACK THROUGH TENDER OFFER Buy-back from existing 21[security-holders]
6.  A  company  may  buy-back  its  22[shares  or  other  specified  securities]  from  its existing  23[security-holders]  on  a  proportionate  basis  in  accordance  with  the provisions of this Chapter: 24[Provided that fifteen percent of the number of securities which the company proposes  to  buy  back  or  number  of  securities  entitled  as  per  their  shareholding, whichever is higher, shall be reserved for small shareholders.] Additional disclosures
7.  The  explanatory  statement  annexed  to  the  notice  under  section  173  of  the Companies Act,  25[***] shall contain the disclosures mentioned in regulation 5 26[***] and also the following disclosures:— (a)  the  27[maximum]  price  at  which  the  buy-back  of  28[shares  or  other  specified securities] shall be made 29[and whether the Board of Directors of the company are  being  authorised  at  the  general  meeting  to  determine  subsequently  the specific price at which the buy-back may be made at the appropriate time]; (b)  if the promoter intends to offer their 30[shares or other specified securities], (i)  the  quantum  of  31[shares  or  other  specified  securities]  proposed  to  be tendered, and (ii)  the  details  of  their  transactions  and  their  holdings  for  the  last  six  months prior  to  the  passing  of  the  special  resolution  for  buy-back  including information  of  number  of  32[shares  or  other  specified  securities]  acquired, the price and the date of acquisition. Filing of offer document, etc.
8.  33[(1)  The  company  which  has  been  authorised  by  a  special  resolution  or  a resolution  passed  by  the  Board  of  Directors  at  its  meeting  shall  make  a  public announcement  within  two  working  days  from  the  date  of  resolution  in  at  least  one English National  Daily,  one  Hindi  National  Daily and a  Regional  language daily  all with  wide  circulation  at  the  place  where  the  Registered  office  of  the  company  is following:
(1) The company which has been authorised by a special resolution or a resolution passed by the Board of Directors  at  its  meeting]  shall  before  buy  back  of shares  or  other  specified  securities  make  a  public announcement in at least one English National Daily, one Hindi National Daily and a Regional language daily all with wide circulation at the place where the Registered office of the company is situated and shall contain all the material information as specified in schedule II. 34[(1A)  A  copy  of  the  public  announcement  along  with  the  soft  copy,  shall  also  be submitted to the Board simultaneously through a merchant banker.]
(2) 35[***]
(3) 36[***]
(4) The company shall within  37[five working days] of the public announcement file with the Board a draft-letter of offer 38[, along with soft copy,] containing disclosures as specified in Schedule III through a merchant banker who is not associated with the company.
(5) The draft letter of offer referred to in sub-regulation (4) shall be accompanied with fees specified in Schedule IV. 39[(6)The  Board  may  give  its  comments  on  the  draft  letter  of  offer  not  later  than seven working days of the receipt of the draft letter of offer: Provided  that  in  the  event  the  Board  has  sought  clarifications  or  additional information from the merchant banker to the buyback offer, the period of issuance of 35  The  words,  symbols  and  numbers  “(2)  The  public  announcement  shall  specify  a  date,  which  shall  be  the ‘specified date’ for the purpose of determining the names of the 35[security-holders] to whom the letter of offer
(6) The letter of offer shall be dispatched not earlier than twenty-one days from its submission to the Board under sub-regulation (4): Provided  that  if,  within  twenty-one  days  from  the  date  of  submission  of  the  draft  letter  of  offer,  the  Board specifies  modifications,  if  any,  in  the  draft  letter  of  offer,  (without  being  under  any  obligation  to  do  so)  the merchant banker and the company shall carry out such modifications before the letter of offer is dispatched to the security-holders. comments shall be extended to the seventh working day from the date of receipt of satisfactory reply to the clarification or additional information sought: Provided  further  that  in  the  event  the  Board  specifies  any  changes,  the  merchant banker  to  the  buyback  offer  and  the  company  shall  carryout  such  changes  in  the letter of offer before it is dispatched to the shareholders.]
(7)  The  company  shall  file  along  with  the  draft  letter  of  offer,  a  declaration  of solvency  in  the  prescribed  form  and  in  a  manner  prescribed  in  sub-section  (6)  of section 77A of the Companies Act. Offer procedure
40[9.  (1)  A  company  making  a  buyback  offer  shall  announce  a  record  date  for  the purpose of determining the entitlement and the names of the security holders, who are eligible to participate in the proposed buyback offer.
(2)  The letter of offer along with the tender form shall be dispatched to the security holders who are eligible to participate in the buyback offer, not later than five working days from the receipt of communication of comments from the Board.
9. (1) The offer for buy-back shall remain open to the members for a period not less than fifteen days and not exceeding thirty days.
(2) The date of the opening of the offer shall not be earlier than seven days or later than thirty days after the specified date.
(3)  The  letter  of  offer  shall  be  sent  to  the  security-holders  so  as  to  reach  the  security-  holders  before  the opening of the offer.
(4) In case the number of shares or other specified securities offered by the security-holders is more than the total number of shares or other specified securities to be bought back by the company, the acceptances per security-holders  shall  be  equal  to  the  acceptances  tendered  by  the  security-holders  divided  by  the  total acceptances received and multiplied by the total number of shares or other specified securities to be bought back.
(5) The company shall complete the verifications of the offers received within fifteen days of the closure of the offer  and  the  shares  or  other  specified  securities  lodged  shall  be  deemed  to  be  accepted  unless  a communication of rejection is made within fifteen days from the closure of the offer.
(3) The date of the opening of the offer shall be not later than five working days from the date of dispatch of letter of offer.
41[(3A).  The  acquirer  or  promoter  shall  facilitate  tendering  of  shares  by  the shareholders and settlement of the same, through the stock exchange mechanism as specified by the Board.]
(4) The offer for buy back shall remain open for a period of ten working days.
(5) The company shall accept shares or other specified securities from the security holders on the basis of their entitlement as on record date.
(6) The shares proposed to be bought back shall be divided in to two categories; (a) reserved  category  for  small  shareholders  and  (b)  the  general  category  for  other shareholders,  and  the  entitlement  of  a  shareholder  in  each  category  shall  be calculated accordingly.
(7) After accepting the shares or other specified securities tendered on the basis of entitlement, shares or other specified securities left to be bought back, if any in one category  shall  first  be  accepted,  in  proportion  to  the  shares  or  other  specified securities tendered over and above their entitlement in the offer by security holders in  that  category  and  thereafter  from  security  holders  who  have  tendered  over  and above their entitlement in other category.] Escrow account
10.  (1)  The  company  shall  as  and  by  way  of  security  for  performance  of  its obligations under the regulations, on or before the opening of the offer deposit in an escrow account such sum as specified in sub-regulation (2).
(2) The escrow amount shall be payable in the following manner,— (i)  if the consideration payable does not exceed Rs. 100 crores - 25 per cent of the consideration payable; (ii)  if the consideration payable exceeds Rs. 100 crores - 25 per cent upto Rs. 100 crores and 10 per cent thereafter.
(3)  The escrow account referred in sub-regulation (1) shall consist of, (a)  cash deposited with a scheduled commercial bank, or (b)  bank guarantee in favour of the merchant banker, or (c)  deposit  of  acceptable  securities  with  appropriate  margin,  with  the  merchant banker, or (d)  a combination of (a), (b) and (c) above.
(4)  Where  the  escrow  account  consists  of  deposit  with  a  scheduled  commercial bank, the company shall, while opening the account, empower the merchant banker to instruct the bank to issue a banker’s cheque or demand draft for the amount lying to the credit of the escrow account, as provided in the regulations.
(5)  Where  the  escrow  account  consists  of  bank  guarantee,  such  bank  guarantee shall be in favour of the merchant banker and shall be valid until thirty days after the closure of the offer.
(6) The company shall, in case the escrow account consists of securities, empower the  merchant  banker  to  realise  the  value  of  such  escrow  account  by  sale  or otherwise and if there is any deficit on realisation of the value of the securities, the merchant banker shall be liable to make good any such deficit.
(7) In case the escrow account consists of bank guarantee or approved securities, these shall not be returned by the merchant banker till completion of all obligations under the regulations.
(8)  Where  the  escrow  account  consists  of  bank  guarantee  or  deposit  of  approved securities, the company shall also deposit with the bank in cash a sum of at least one  per  cent  of  the  total  consideration  payable,  as  and  by  way  of  security  for fulfilment of the obligations under the regulations by the company.
(9) On payment of consideration to all the 42[security-holders] who have accepted the offer and after completion of all formalities of buy-back, the amount, guarantee and securities in the escrow, if any, shall be released to the company.
(10) The Board in the interest of the 43[security-holders] may in case of non-fulfilment of obligations under the regulations by the company forfeit the escrow account either in full or in part.
(11)  The  amount  forfeited  under  sub-regulation  (10)  may  be  distributed  pro  rata amongst the 44[security-holders] who accepted the offer and balance, if any, shall be utilised for investor protection. Payment to 45[security-holders]
11. (1) The company shall immediately after the date of closure of the offer open a special  account  with  a  banker  to  an  issue  registered  with  the  Board  and  deposit therein, such sum as would, together with 46[ninety per cent. of] the amount lying in the escrow account make-up the entire sum due and payable as consideration for buy-back in terms of these regulations and for this purpose, may transfer the funds from the escrow account.
47[(2)  The  company  shall  complete  the  verifications  of  offers  received  and  make payment of consideration to those security holders whose offer has been accepted or return the shares or other specified securities to the security holders within seven working days of the closure of the offer.] Extinguishment of certificate
12.  48[(1)  The  company  shall  extinguish  and  physically  destroy  the  security certificates so bought back in the presence of a Registrar to issue or the Merchant Banker and the Statutory Auditor within fifteen days of the date of acceptance of the shares or other specified securities: Provided  that  the  company  shall  ensure  that  all  the  securities  bought  -  back  are extinguished within seven days of the last date of completion of buy - back.]
(2)  The  49[shares  or  other  specified  securities]  offered  for  buy-back  if  already dematerialised  shall  be  extinguished  and  destroyed  in  the  manner  specified  under the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Depositories  and  Participants) Regulations, 1996, and the bye-laws framed thereunder. 50[(3)(a) The company shall, furnish a certificate to the Board certifying compliance as specified in sub-regulation (1) and duly certified and verified by - (i)  the registrar and whenever there is no registrar by the merchant banker; (ii)  two directors of the company one of whom shall be a managing director where there is one; (iii)  the statutory auditor of the company, (b)  The  certificate  required  under  clause  (a)  shall  be  furnished  to  the  Board  on  a monthly basis by the seventh day of the month succeeding the month in which the securities certificates are extinguished and destroyed.]
51[(4)  The  company  shall  furnish,  the  particulars  of  the  security  certificates extinguished and destroyed under sub-regulation (1), to the stock exchanges where “The company shall extinguish and physically destroy the security certificates so bought back in the presence of  a  Registrar  or  the  Merchant  Banker,  and  the  Statutory  Auditor  within  seven  days  from  the  date  of acceptance of the specified securities.”
“(3) The company shall furnish a certificate to the Board duly verified by — (a) (b) (c) the registrar and whenever there is no registrar through the merchant banker; two whole-time Directors including the Managing Director and, the statutory auditor of the company, and certifying compliance as specified in sub-regulation
(1), within seven days of extinguishment and destruction of the certificates.” the shares of the company are listed on a monthly basis by the seventh day of the month succeeding the month in which the securities certificates are extinguished and destroyed.]
(5) The company shall maintain a record of 52[security certificates] which have been cancelled  and  destroyed  as  prescribed  in  sub-section  (9)  of  section  77A  of  the Companies Act. Odd-lot Buy-back
13.  The  provisions  pertaining  to  buy-back  through  tender  offer  as  specified  in  this Chapter shall be applicable mutatis mutandis to odd-lot  53[shares or other specified securities]. CHAPTER IV BUY-BACK FROM THE OPEN MARKET Buy-back from open market
14. (1) A company intending to buy-back its  54[shares or other specified securities] from the open market shall do so in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. 06-2004 for the following: “The  particulars  of  the security  certificates  extinguished  and  destroyed  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be furnished to the stock exchanges where the specified securities of the company are listed within seven days of extinguishment and destruction of the certificates.”
(2)  The  buy-back  of  55[shares  or  other  specified  securities]  from  the  open  market may be in any one of the following methods : (a)  through stock exchange, (b)  book-building process.
56[(3) The company shall ensure that atleast fifty per cent of the amount earmarked for buy-back, as specified in resolutions referred to in regulation 5 or regulation 5A, is utilized for buying-back shares or other specified securities.] Buy-back through stock exchange
15. A company shall buy-back its 57[shares or other specified securities] through the stock exchange as provided hereunder : (a)  58[The special resolution referred to in regulation 5 or the resolution passed by the Board of Directors at its meeting as referred to in regulation 5A] shall specify the maximum price at which the buy-back shall be made; (b)  The buy-back of  the  59[shares or other  specified securities] shall not be made from the promoters or persons in control of the company; (c)  The  company  shall  appoint  a  merchant  banker  and  make  a  public announcement as referred to in regulation 8; (d)  The public announcement shall be made 60[within seven working days from the date  of  passing  the  resolution  referred  to  in  regulation  5  or  regulation  5A]  61[, and shall contain disclosures as specified in Schedule II, Part B]; 62[(e)  Simultaneously  with  the  issue  of  such  public  announcement,  the  company shall file a copy of the public announcement with the Board along with the fees specified in Schedule IV;] (f)  The public announcement shall also contain disclosures regarding details of the brokers and stock exchanges through which the buy-back of  63[shares or other specified securities] would be made; 64[(g)  The  buy-back  shall  be  made  only  on  stock  exchanges  having  nationwide trading terminals;] (h)  The  buy-back  of  65[shares  or  other  specified  securities]  shall  be  made  only through  the  order  matching  mechanism  except  ‘all  or  none’  order  matching system; 66[(i)      the  company  shall  submit  the  information  regarding  the  shares  or  other specified securities bought-back, to the stock exchange on a daily basis in such form as may be specified by the Board and the stock exchange shall upload the same on its official website immediately;] 67[(ia)  The  company  shall  upload  the  information  regarding  the  shares  or  other specified securities bought-back on its website on a daily basis;] (j)  The identity of the company as a purchaser shall appear on the electronic screen when the order is placed; 68[(k) The buy-back offer shall open not later than seven working days from the date of  public  announcement  and  shall  close  within  six  months  from  the  date  of opening of the offer.] 69[Buy-back of physical shares or other specified securities
15A. A company  shall buy-back its shares or other specified securities  in  physical form through open market method as provided hereunder: a separate window shall be created by the stock exchange, which shall (a) remain  open  during  the  buy-back  period,  for  buy-back  of  shares  or  other specified securities in physical form. (b) the  company  shall  buy-back  shares  or other  specified securities  from eligible  shareholders  holding  physical  shares  through  the  separate  window specified in clause (a), only after verification of the identity proof and address proof by the broker. the price at which the shares or other specified securities are bought back shall  be  the  volume  weighted  average  price  of  the  shares  or  other specified  securities  bought-back,  other  than  in  the  physical  form,  during the calendar week in which such shares or other specified securities were received by the broker: (c) Provided  that  the  price  of  shares  or  other  specified  securities  tendered during  the  first  calendar  week  of  the  buy-back  shall  be  the  volume weighted average market price of the shares or other specified securities of the company during the preceding calendar week. back  in  the  normal  market  during  calendar  week,  the  preceding  week when  the  company  has  last  bought  back  the  shares  or  other  specified securities may be considered.
15B. Escrow account The  Company  shall,  before  opening  of  the  offer,  create  an  escrow  account
(1) towards  security  for  performance  of  its  obligations  under  these  regulations,  and deposit in escrow account 25 per cent of the amount earmarked for the buy-back as specified in the resolutions referred to in regulation 5 or regulation 5A.
(2) The escrow account referred to in sub-regulation (1) may be in the form of,— (a) (b) scheduled commercial bank. cash deposited with any scheduled commercial bank; or bank  guarantee  issued  in  favour  of  the  merchant  banker  by  any For such part of the escrow account as is in the form of a cash deposit with a
(3) scheduled commercial bank, the company shall while opening the account, empower the merchant banker to instruct the bank to make payment of the amounts lying to the credit of the escrow account, to meet the obligations arising out of the buy-back.
(4) For such part of the escrow account as is in the form of a bank guarantee: (a) the same shall be in favour of the merchant banker and shall be kept valid for a period of thirty days after the closure of the offer or till the completion of all obligations under these regulations, whichever is later. (b) the same shall not be returned by the merchant banker till completion of all obligations under the regulations.
(5)  Where  part  of  the  escrow  account  is  in  the  form  of  a  bank  guarantee,  the company shall deposit with a scheduled commercial bank, in cash, a sum of at least
2.5  per  cent  of  the  total  amount  earmarked  for  buy-back  as  specified  in  the resolutions referred to in regulation 5 or regulation 5A. as and by way of security for fulfillment of the obligations under the regulations by the company.
(6) The escrow amount may be released for making payment to the shareholders subject  to  atleast  2.5%  of  the  amount  earmarked  for  buy-back  as  specified  in  the resolutions  referred  to  in  regulation  5  or  regulation  5A    remaining  in  the  escrow account at all points of time.
(7)  On fulfilling the obligation specified at sub regulation (3) of Regulation 14, the amount and the guarantee remaining in the escrow account, if any, shall be released to the company. In the event of non-compliance with sub-regulation (3) of regulation 14, except
(8) in cases where,- a.  volume  weighted  average  market  price  (VWAMP)  of  the  shares  or  other specified securities of the company during the buy-back period was higher than the buy-back price as certified by the Merchant banker based on the inputs provided by the Stock Exchanges. b.  inadequate  sell  orders  despite  the  buy  orders  placed  by  the  company  as certified by the Merchant banker based on the inputs provided by the Stock Exchanges. c.  such circumstances which were beyond the control of the company and in the opinion of the Board merit consideration, the Board may direct the merchant banker to forfeit the escrow account, subject to a maximum of 2.5 per cent of the amount earmarked for buy-back as specified in the resolutions referred to in regulations 5 or 5A. In  the  event  of  forfeiture  for  non-fulfillment  of  obligations  specified  in  sub-
(9) regulation (8), the amount forfeited shall be deposited in the Investor Protection and Education Fund of Securities and Exchange Board of India.] Extinguishment of certificates
16. (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (2) 70[and sub-regulation (3)], the provisions  of  regulation  12  pertaining  to  extinguishment  of  certificates  shall  be applicable mutatis mutandis.
(2) The company shall complete the verification of acceptances within fifteen days of the payout.
71[(3) The company shall extinguish and physically destroy the security certificates so bought  back  during  the  month  in  the  presence  of  a  Merchant  Banker  and  the Statutory Auditor, on or before the fifteenth day of the succeeding month: Provided  that  the  company  shall  ensure  that  all  the  securities  bought-back  are extinguished within seven days of the last date of completion of buyback.] Buy-back through book building
17. A company may buy-back its 72[shares or other specified securities] through the book-building process as provided hereunder:
(1) (a) The special resolution referred to in regulation 5 73[or the resolution passed by the Board of Directors at its meeting, as referred to in regulation 5A] shall specify the maximum price at which the buy-back shall be made. (b) The company shall appoint a merchant banker and make a public announcement as referred to in regulation 8. (c)  The  public  announcement  shall  be  made  at  least  seven  days  prior  to  the commencement of buy-back. (d) Subject to the provisions of sub-clauses (i) and (ii) the provisions of regulation 10 shall be applicable : (i)  The deposit in the escrow account shall be made before the date of the public announcement. (ii)  The  amount  to  be  deposited  in  the  escrow  account  shall  be  determined  with reference to the maximum price as specified in the public announcement. (e) A copy of the public announcement shall be filed with the Board within two days of such announcement along with the fees as specified in Schedule IV. (f)  The  public  announcement  shall  also  contain  the  detailed  methodology  of  the book-building  process,  the  manner  of  acceptance,  the  format  of  acceptance  to  be sent by the 74[security-holders] pursuant to the public announcement and the details of bidding centres. (g)  The  book-building  process  shall  be  made  through  an  electronically  linked transparent facility. (h) The number of bidding centres shall not be less than thirty and there shall be at least one electronically linked computer terminal at all the bidding centres. (i) The offer for buy-back shall remain open to the 75[security-holders] for a period not less than fifteen days and not exceeding thirty days. (j) The merchant banker and the company shall determine the buy-back price based on the acceptances received. (k) The final buy-back price, which shall be the highest price accepted shall be paid to all holders whose 76[shares or other specified securities] have been accepted for buy-back.
(2) The provisions of  77[sub-regulation (2) of regulation 11] pertaining to verification of acceptances and the provisions of regulation 11 pertaining to opening of special account and payment of consideration shall be applicable mutatis mutandis. Extinguishment of certificates
18. The provisions of regulation 12 pertaining to extinguishment of certificates shall be applicable mutatis mutandis. CHAPTER V GENERAL OBLIGATIONS Obligations of the company
19. (1) The company shall ensure that,— (a)  the  letter  of  offer,  the  public  announcement  of  the  offer  or  any  other advertisement,  circular,  brochure,  publicity  material  78[***]  shall  contain  true, factual and material information and shall not contain any misleading information and must state that the directors of the company accepts the responsibility for the information contained in such documents; (b)  the company shall not issue any 79[shares or other specified securities] including by  way  of  bonus  till  the  date  of  closure  of  the  offer  made  under  these regulations; (c)  the company shall pay the consideration only by way of cash; (d)  the company shall not withdraw the offer to buy-back after the draft letter of offer is filed with the Board or public announcement of the offer to buy-back is made; (e)  the  promoter  or  the  person  shall  not  deal  in  the  80[shares  or  other  specified securities] of the company in the stock exchange 81[or off-market, including inter- se transfer of shares among the promoters] during the period 82[from the date of passing the resolution under regulation 5 or regulation 5A till the closing of the offer.] 83[(f)  the company shall not raise further capital for a period of one year from the closure of buy-back offer, except in discharge of its subsisting obligations.]
(2) No public announcement of buy-back shall be made during the pendency of any scheme of amalgamation or compromise or arrangement pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act.
(3) The company  shall nominate a  compliance officer and investors service centre for  compliance  with  the  buy-back  regulations  and  to  redress  the  grievances  of  the investors.
(4) The particulars of the 84[security certificates] extinguished and destroyed shall be furnished  by  the  company  to  the  stock  exchanges  where  the  85[shares  or  other specified securities] of the company are listed within seven days of extinguishment and destruction of the certificates.
(5)  The  company  shall  not  buy-back  the  locked-in  86[shares  or  other  specified securities]  and  non-transferable  87[shares  or  other  specified  securities]  till  the pendency  of  the  lock-in  or  till  the  88[shares  or  other  specified  securities]  become transferable.
(6) 89[***] (e)  the letter of offer has been filed in terms of the regulations; (f)  the merchant banker shall furnish to the Board a due diligence certificate which shall accompany the draft letter of offer; (g)  the merchant banker shall ensure that the contents of the public announcement of offer as well as the letter of offer are true, fair and adequate and quoting the source wherever necessary; (h)  the merchant banker shall ensure compliance of section 77A and section 77B of the  Companies  Act,  and  any  other  laws  or  rules  as  may  be  applicable  in  this regard; (i)  upon  fulfilment  of  all  obligations  by  the  company  under  the  regulations,  the merchant banker shall inform the bank with whom the escrow or special amount has been deposited to release the balance amount to the company; (j)  the merchant banker shall send a final report to the Board in the form specified within 15 days from the date of closure of the buy-back offer. Action against intermediaries
21.  (1)  The  Board  may,  on  failure  of  the  merchant  banker  to  comply  with  the obligations  or  failing  to  observe  due  diligence  initiate  action  against  the  merchant banker in terms of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992.
(2)  The  Board  may  on  the  failure  of  a  registrar  or  a  broker  to  comply  with  the provisions  of  these  regulations  or  failing  to  observe  due  diligence  initiate  action against  the  registrar  or  the  broker  in  terms  of  the  regulations  applicable  to  such intermediaries. CHAPTER VI PENALTIES AND PROCEDURE Power of the Board to order investigation
22.  (1)  The  Board  may,  suo  motu  or  upon  information  received  by  it,  cause  an investigation  to  be  made  in  respect  of  the  conduct  and  affairs  of  any  person associated with the process of buy-back, by appointing an officer of the Board : Provided that no such investigation shall be made except for the purposes specified in sub-regulation (2).
(2) The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) are the following, namely :— (a)  to  ascertain  whether  there  are  any  circumstances  which  would  render  any person guilty of having contravened any of these regulations or any directions issued thereunder; (b)  to investigate into any complaint of any contravention of the regulation, received from any investor, intermediary or any other person.
(3)  An  order  passed  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  sufficient  authority  for  the Investigating  Officer  to  undertake  the  investigation  and  on  production  of  an authenticated copy of the order, the person concerned shall be bound to carry out the duty imposed in regulation 23. Duty to produce records, etc.
23. (1) It shall be the duty of every person in respect of whom an investigation has been ordered under regulation 22, to produce before the Investigating Officer such books, accounts and other documents in his custody or control and furnish him with such statements and information as the said officer may require from the purposes of the investigation.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of sub-regulation (1), such person shall— (a)  extend to the Investigating Officer reasonable facilities for examining any books, accounts and other documents in his custody or control (whether kept manually or in computer or in any other form) reasonably required for the purposes for the investigation; (b)  to  provide  such  Investigating  Officer  with  copies  of  such  books,  accounts  and records  which,  in  the  opinion  of  the  Investigating  Officer,  are  relevant  to  the investigation or, as the case may be, allow him to take out computer printouts thereof; (c)  to provide such assistance and co-operation as may be required in connection with  the investigation  and  furnish  information  relevant  to  such investigation  as may be sought by such officer.
(3)  The  Investigating  Officer  shall  for  the  purpose  of  investigation,  have  the  full powers : (a)  of summoning and enforcing the attendance of persons; (b)  to examine orally and to record on oath the statement of the persons concerned, any director, partner, member or employee of such person. Submission of Report to the Board
24. (1) The Investigating Officer shall, on completion of the investigation, after taking into account all relevant facts and circumstances, submit a report to the Board.
(2)  On  the  receipt  of  report  under  sub-regulation  (1),  the  Board  may  initiate  such action as it may be empowered to do in the interests of investors and the securities market. Power of the Board to issue directions
25. (1) The Board may in the interests of the securities market and without prejudice to its right to initiate action including criminal prosecution by the Board under section 24 of the Act and give such directions as it deems fit including : (a)  directing the person concerned not to further deal in securities in any particular manner; (b)  prohibiting  the  person  concerned  from  cancelling  any  of  the  securities  bought back in violation of the Companies Act; (c)  directing the person concerned to sell or divest the 95[shares or other specified securities]  acquired  in  violation  of  the  provisions  of  these  Regulations  or  any other law or regulations; (d)  taking action against the intermediaries registered with the Board in accordance with the Regulations applicable to it; (e)  prohibiting  the  persons  concerned,  directors,  partners,  members,  employees and associates of such persons, from accessing the securities market; (f)  disgorgement of any ill-gotten gains or profits or avoidance of loss; (g)  restraining the company from making a further offer for buy-back.
(2) In case any person is guilty of insider trading or market manipulation the person concerned shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 and the Securities and Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices Relating to the Securities Market) Regulations, 1995. CHAPTER VII MISCELLANEOUS Power of the Board to remove difficulties
26.  In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  interpretation  or  application  of  the provisions of these Regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue directions through guidance notes or circulars : Provided that where any direction is issued by the Board in a specific case relating to interpretation or application of  any  provision of  these Regulations, it shall be done only  after  affording  a  reasonable  opportunity  to  the  concerned  parties  and  after recording reasons for the direction. 96[***]
3.  (1)  An  application  by  scheduled  bank  for  grant  of  a  certificate  11[of  12[***] registration] as banker to an issue shall be made to the Board in Form A. 13[(1A)  An  application  for  registration  made  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as specified in Schedule II.]
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  any  application made prior to coming into force of these regulations containing such particulars or as near thereto as mentioned in Form A shall be treated as an application made in pursuance of sub-regulation (1) and dealt with accordingly. Application to conform to the requirements.
4. Subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3, any application, which  is  not  complete  in  all  respects  and  does  not  conform  to  the  instructions specified in the form, shall be rejected: Provided that, before rejecting any such application, the applicant shall be given an  opportunity  to  remove  within  the  time  specified  such  objections  as  may  be indicated by the Board. Furnishing of information, clarification and personal representation.
5.  (1)  The  Board  may  require  the  applicant  to  furnish  further  information  or clarification  regarding  matters  relevant  to  the  activity  of  a  banker  to  an  issue  for the purposes of disposal of the application.
(2) The applicant officer shall, if so required appear before the Board for personal representation through an officer duly authorised in this regard by the applicant. Consideration of application.
6.  The  Board  shall  take  into  account  for  considering the grant  of  a  certificate,  all matters  which  are  relevant  to  the  activities  relating  to  banker  to  an  issue  and  in particular whether the applicant fulfils the following requirements, namely :— (a)  the  applicant  has  the  necessary  infrastructure,  communication  and  data processing facilities and manpower to effectively discharge its activities; (b)  the applicant or any of its directors is not involved in any litigation connected with the securities market and which has an adverse bearing on the business of the applicant or has not been convicted of any economic offence; (c)  the applicant is a scheduled bank; 14[(cc) the applicant is a fit and proper person;] (d)  grant of certificate to the applicant is in the interest of investors. 15[Criteria for fit and proper person
6A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the banker to an issue is a fit and proper person, the Board may take into account the criteria specified in Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008]
16[7. Grant of certificate of 17[***] registration.
(1)  The  Board,  on  being  satisfied  that  the  applicant  is  eligible,  shall  send  an intimation to the applicant, within one month of such satisfaction, that it has been found eligible for grant of certificate of  18[***] registration and grant a certificate in Form B.
19[(2) The certificate of registration granted under sub- regulation (1) shall be valid unless it is suspended or cancelled by the Board.]
20[(3)  The  bankers  to  an  issue  who  has  already  been  granted  certificate  of registration  by  the  Board,  prior  to  the  commencement  of  the  Securities  and Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  in  Conditions  of  Registration  of  Certain Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been granted a certificate of registration, in terms of sub-regulation (1).]
(4)  The  grant  of  a  certificate  of  21[***]  registration  shall  be  subject  to  payment  of the registration fee as specified in Schedule II of these regulations.] 7A 22[***]
8. 23[***] 24[Conditions of registration.
8A.  25[(1)Registration granted under regulation 7 shall be subject to the following conditions, namely – ”] obtain prior approval of the Board for continuing to act as such after the change; where the banker to an issue proposes 26[change in control], it shall (a) (b) it shall enter into a legally binding agreement with the body corporate for or on whose behalf it is acting as banker to an issue stating therein the allocation of  duties  and  responsibilities  between  itself  and  the  body  corporate  for  the issue for which it is acting as a banker to an issue; 27[(c)  it  shall  pay  the  fees  for  registration,  in  the  manner  provided  in  these regulations.] (d) it  shall  take  adequate  steps  for  redressal  of  grievances  of  the  investors within  one  month  of  the  date  of  the  receipt  of  the  complaint  and  keep  the Board  informed  about  the  number,  nature  and  other  particulars  of  the it shall pay the fees for  27[initial registration or permanent registration], as the case may be, in the complaints  received  and  the  manner  in  which  such  complaints  have  been redressed; (e) it  shall  abide  by  the  regulations  made  under  the  Act  in  respect  of  the activities carried on by it as banker to an issue. 28[(f) it shall immediately intimate the Board, details of changes that have taken place in the information that was submitted, while seeking registration.]
(2) Nothing contained in clause (a) of sub-regulation (1) shall affect the obligation to  obtain  a  fresh  registration  under  section  12  of  the  Act  in  cases  where  it  is applicable.
8B.29 [***] Procedure where registration is not granted.
9.  30[(1)  Where  an  application  for  grant  of  a  certificate  of  registration  under regulation  3  does  not  satisfy  the  criteria  set  out  in  regulation  6,  the  Board  shall reject the application after giving an opportunity of being heard.]
31[(2) The refusal to grant registration, shall be communicated by the Board within thirty  days  of  such  refusal  to  the  applicant  stating  therein  the  grounds  on  which the application has been rejected.]
(3) Any applicant may, being aggrieved by the decision of the Board, under sub- regulation (1), apply within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of such intimation to the Board for reconsideration of its decision.
(4) The Board shall reconsider an application made under sub-regulation (3) and communicate its decision as soon as possible in writing to the applicant.
10. 32[***] Payment of fees and the consequences of failure to pay fees.
11.  33[(1)  Every  applicant  eligible  for  grant  of  registration,  shall  pay  the  fees  in  such manner and within the period specified in Schedule II.]
(2)  Where  the  applicant  fails  to  pay  the  fees  as  provided  in  sub-regulation  (1) read  with  Schedule  II,  the  Board  may  suspend  the  registration  certificate, whereupon  the  applicant  shall  cease  to  carry  on  any  activity  as  a  banker  to  an issue for the period during which the suspension subsists. CHAPTER III GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES Maintenance of books of account, records and the documents.
12. (1) Every banker to an issue shall maintain the following records with respect to :— (a)  the number of applications received, the names of the investors, the dates on which  the  applications  were  received  and  the  amount  so  received  from  the investors; (b)  the  time  within  which  the  applications  received  from  the  investors  were forwarded to the body corporate or registrar to an issue, as the case may be; (c)  dates and amount of refund monies paid to the investors; (d)  dates, names and amount of dividend/interest warrant paid to the investors.
(2)  Every  banker  to  an  issue  shall  intimate  to  the  Board  the  place  where  the records and documents mentioned in sub-regulation (1) are kept.
(3) The banker to an issue shall preserve the records and documents specified in sub-regulation (1) for a minimum period of 34[eight] years. Furnishing of information to the Board.
13.  Every  banker  to  an  issue  shall  furnish  to  the  Board  when  required  the following information, namely :— (a)  the number of issues for which he was engaged as a banker to an issue; (b)  the number of applications and details of the application monies received by the banker to an issue; (c)  the  dates  on  which  the  applications  received  from  the  investors  were forwarded to the body corporate or registrar to an issue; (d)  the dates on which and the amount refunded to the investors; (e)  the payment or dividend/or interest warrants to the investors. Agreement with bodies corporate.
14.  (1)  Every  banker  to  an  issue  shall  enter  into  an  agreement  with  the  body corporate for whom it is acting as banker to an issue.
(2)  The  agreement  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  contain  the  following clauses, namely :— (a)  the number of centres at which the applications and application monies of an issue of a body corporate will be collected from the investors; (b)  the time within which the statement regarding the applications and application monies received from the investors investing in an issue of a body corporate will  be  forwarded  to  the  registrar  to  an  issue  or  the  body  corporate,  as  the case may be; (c)  that a daily statement will be sent by the designated controlling branch of the bankers  to  the  issue  to  the  registrar  to  an  issue  indicating  the  number  of applications received on that date from the investors investing in the issue of a body corporate, and the amount of application money received. Board to be informed of any disciplinary action taken by the Reserve Bank.
15.  Every  banker  to  an  issue  shall  inform  the  Board  forthwith  if  any  disciplinary action is taken by the Reserve Bank against the banker to an issue only in relation to issue payment work : Provided that if as a result of any such action, the banker to an issue is prohibited from  carrying  on  the  activities,  the  certificate  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been suspended or cancelled as the case may be. Code of conduct.
16.  Every  banker  to  an  issue  shall  abide  by  the  code  of  conduct  as  specified  in Schedule III. Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30-05-2018. Prior to substitution it read as “three”. 35[Appointment of compliance officer.
16A. (1) Every banker to an issue shall appoint a compliance officer who shall be responsible  for  monitoring  the  compliance  of  the  Act,  rules  and  regulations, notifications,  guidelines,  instructions,  etc.,  issued  by  the  Board  or  the  Central Government and for redressal of investors’ grievances.
(2)  The  compliance  officer  shall  immediately  and  independently  report  to  the Board any non-compliance observed by him.] CHAPTER IV PROCEDURE FOR INSPECTION Inspection of Banker to an Issue.
17. The Board may request the Reserve Bank of India to undertake inspection of the books of account, records and documents of the banker to an issue for  any of the purposes specified in regulation 18. Purpose of inspection.
18. The purposes referred to in regulation 17 may be as follows, namely:— (a)  to  ensure  that  the  books  of  account  are  being  maintained  in  the  manner required; (b)  that the provisions of the Act, rules, regulations are being complied with; (c)  to investigate into the complaints received from investors, body corporate or any  other  person  on  any  matter  having  a  bearing  on  the  activities  of  the banker to an issue; and (d)  to investigate into such matters as may be required by the Board. Procedure for inspection.
19. The Reserve Bank shall on a receipt of a request from the Board as soon as possible  take  steps  to  undertake  inspection  of  the  banker  to  an  issue  for  such purposes as may be required by the Board in such manner as it may deem fit. Obligations of banker to an issue on inspection.
20.  (1)  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  director,  proprietor,  partner,  officer  and employee  of  the  banker  to  an  issue,  who  is  being  inspected,  to  produce  to  the inspecting authority such books, accounts and other documents in his custody or control  and  furnish  him  with  the  statements  and  information  relating  to  his activities  as  a  banker  to  an  issue  within  such  time  as  the  Reserve  Bank  may require.
(2) The banker to an issue shall allow the inspecting authority to have reasonable access  to  the  premises  occupied  by  such  banker  to  an  issue  or  by  any  other (Amendment) Regulations, 2001, w.e.f. 29-05-2001. person on his behalf and also extend reasonable facility for examining any books, records,  documents  and  computer  data  in  the  possession  of  the  banker  to  an issue  or  any  such  other  person  and  also  provide  copies  of  documents  or  other materials  which,  in  the opinion  of  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India are relevant for  the purposes of the inspection.
(3)  The  inspecting  authority,  in  the  course  of  inspection,  shall  be  entitled  to examine  or  record  statements  of  any  principal  officer,  member,  director,  partner, proprietor and employee of the banker to an issue.
(4) It shall be the duty of every director, proprietor, partner, officer or employee of the  banker  to  an  issue  to  give  to  the  inspecting  authority  all  assistance  in connection  with  the  inspection  which  the  banker  to  an  issue  may  reasonably  be expected to give. Submission of report to the Board.
21.  The  Reserve  Bank  of  India  shall,  as  soon  as  may  be  possible  furnish  to  the Board  a  copy  of  the  inspection  report  together  with  the  copies  of  relevant documents in support of the observations made by the inspecting authority. 36[Action on inspection or investigation report.
22. The Board or the Chairman shall after consideration of inspection or investigation report take such action as the Board or Chairman may deem fit and appropriate including action under 37[Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.]] CHAPTER V PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 38[Liability for action in case of default 36  Substituted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f., 27-09-2002. Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (intermediaries) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 26-05-2008
05-2008.  Prior to the substitution, the regulation read as under: “23. A banker to an  issue who- (a) fails to comply with any conditions subject to which certificate has been granted; (b)  contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  rules  or  regulations,  shall  be  dealt  with  in  the  manner provided  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002.” Prior to the above substitution, the regulation read as under: “23. A banker to an issue who:- (a) fails to comply with any conditions subject to which certificate has been granted; (b) contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, rules or regulations; shall be liable to any of the penalties specified in sub regulation .
(2) The penalties referred to in sub- regulation (1) may be either:-
23. A banker to issue who contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, Rules or Regulations  framed  thereunder  shall  be  liable  for  one  or  more  actions  specified therein  including  the  action  under  Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.]
24. to 31. 39[***] 40[CHAPTER VI POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
32. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but  not  exceeding  twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological aspects  relating  to  testing  new  products,  processes,  services,  business  models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets.
3. Every specified intermediary, other entity, specified listed company and specified investor shall make application for allotment of unique identification numbers for itself and for its related persons in accordance with these regulations. (Amendment) Regulations, 2004, vide   S.O. No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004. Specified intermediary and other entity to obtain unique identification numbers
4. (1) On and from such date as may be notified by the Board in the official gazette, no specified intermediary or other entity shall act as such, unless— it has obtained a unique identification number from the Designated Service (a) Provider; and the following related persons have been allotted unique identification numbers (b) by the Designated Service Provider : (i)  its principal officer and personnel engaged in the operational activities of the intermediary for which a certificate of registration is required or taken from the Board; (ii)  its promoters, other than the Central or State Government or any statutory authority; (iii) its directors, in case it is a body corporate; (iv) its partners, in case it is a partnership firm; 1[(v) in case of a stock broker, any approved user of the terminals allotted to him by the stock exchange, including terminals installed through Computer to Computer Link (CTCL) connectivity or any other means of connectivity approved by the stock exchange, which facilitates access to trading system of the exchange, except his sub-broker;] (vi) the sponsors, trustees, asset management companies and asset managers, where applicable; 2[(vi-a)the directors and personnel engaged in the operational activities of asset management companies; and]  (vii) its proprietor, where applicable; 3[***] 1 Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Central  Database  of  Market  Participants)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2004,  vide S.O. No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004. Prior to its substitution, sub-clause (v) read as under :- “(v) its associates and their directors;” No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004. 2004, vide   S.O. No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004. (viii) 1[***]. in the operational activities’ shall mean the employees comprising the top three tiers of management excluding the Board of Directors engaged in the operational activities of the specified intermediary and such other employees as may be identified by the intermediary:] Provided that such person may continue to act as an intermediary or other entity if it has made applications for allotment of unique identification number under regulation 7 before the notified date and where such application has been rejected by the Board, an appeal has been filed and such appeal is pending for disposal.
(2) Every certificate of registration issued to a specified intermediary by the Board after commencement of these regulations shall be subject to the condition that prior to commencement of its activities, the intermediary shall obtain a unique identification number for itself and for the persons mentioned in clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) in accordance with these regulations. Specified listed company to obtain unique identification number
5. On and from such date as may be notified by the Board in the official gazette, no specified listed company or a company which intends to get its securities listed shall issue any securities which are proposed to be listed on a recognized stock exchange, unless— it has obtained a unique identification number from the Designated Service (a) Provider; and the following related persons have been allotted unique identification numbers (b) by the Designated Service Provider: (i)  its promoters, other than the Central or State Government or any statutory authority; (ii)  its directors and officers; (iii) its designated employees; (iv) its subsidiaries, its holding company and the holding company’s subsidiaries, if any; (v)  its associates and their directors; and (vi) relatives of the natural persons mentioned in sub-clauses (i) to (iii) and (v) above : 2004, vide   S.O. No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004. Prior to omission, it read as under: “(viii) relatives of the natural persons mentioned in sub-clauses (i) to (vii) above:” No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004 Provided that a specified listed company may, make an issue of securities which are proposed to be listed in any recognized stock exchange if it has made an application for allotment of unique identification number before the notified date, till the disposal of the application and where an appeal has been filed, till such appeal is disposed of. 1[Power of the Board to extend time in respect of related persons
5A.(1) Where the Board is satisfied that it is necessary, in order to prevent genuine hardship, that the time for obtaining unique identification numbers has to be extended beyond the date notified under regulations 4 or 5, as the case may be, in respect of any class of related persons of specified intermediaries or specified listed companies, it may by notification in the Official Gazette, specify a date within which such class of related persons ought to obtain unique identification numbers.
(2) Where any person belonging to such class of related persons does not obtain unique identification number within the date notified under sub-regulation (1), the prohibitions contained in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4 or regulation 5, as the case may be, shall apply to the concerned specified intermediary or specified listed company.] Specified investors to obtain unique identification numbers
6. (1) On and from such date as may be notified by the Board in the Official Gazette, no specified investor, not being a body corporate, shall buy, sell or deal in any securities which are listed on any recognized stock exchange or in units of a mutual fund or a collective investment scheme or subscribe to securities which are proposed to be listed in any recognized stock exchange or units of a mutual fund or a collective investment scheme unless he has been allotted a unique identification number.
(2) On and from such date as may be notified by the Board in the Official Gazette, no specified investor being a body corporate shall buy, sell or deal in any securities which are listed on any recognized stock exchange or in units of a mutual fund or a collective investment scheme or subscribe to securities which are proposed to be listed in any recognized stock exchange or units of a mutual fund or a collective investment scheme unless such specified investor, its promoters and directors have been allotted unique identification numbers. On and from such date as may be notified by the Board in the Official Gazette, no
(3) specified investor, being a 2[Foreign portfolio Investor], a sub-account or a Foreign Venture Capital Investor shall buy, sell or deal in any securities which are listed on any recognized stock exchange or in units of a mutual fund or a collective investment scheme or subscribe to securities which are proposed to be listed in any recognized stock exchange or units of a mutual fund or a collective investment scheme unless it has been allotted a unique identification number. No intermediary shall, after such specified date, deal in or allot such securities on behalf
(4) of or to a specified investor unless the investor has been allotted a unique identification number. Nothing in this regulation shall apply to any specified investor who has applied for
(5) allotment of a unique identification number under regulation 9 before the notified date, till the disposal of his application or, where he has filed an appeal, till the disposal of the appeal, as the case may be. Application by specified intermediary or other entity
7. Every specified intermediary or other entity shall make an application in accordance with 1[sub-regulation (1) or sub-regulation (2), as the case may be, of regulation 12] to the Designated Service Provider for allotment of unique identification numbers for itself and for its related persons. Application by specified listed company
8. (1) Every specified listed company shall make an application to the Designated Service Provider in accordance with 2[sub-regulation (1) or sub-regulation (2), as the case may be, of regulation 12] for allotment of unique identification numbers for itself and for its related persons.
(2) Every public company specified in the notification issued under regulation 5 and which intends to get its securities listed in a recognized stock exchange shall make an application to the Designated Service Provider for allotment of unique identification numbers for itself and for the related persons mentioned in 3[clause (b) of regulation 5] simultaneously with the filing of the offer document with the Central Listing Authority. Application by specified investor
9. Every specified investor shall make an application to the Designated Service Provider in accordance with 4[sub-regulation (1) or sub-regulation (2), as the case may be, of regulation 12] for allotment of a unique identification number. Person holding a unique identification number not required to obtain another unique identification number
10. Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, no person shall be obliged to apply for or be allotted another unique identification number, if he already holds a unique identification number allotted to him under these regulations in any other capacity : Provided that where any person holding a unique identification number subsequently becomes an intermediary or a listed company or a related person of any of them, he shall disclose such fact to the Designated Service Provider. (Amendment) Regulations, 2004, vide   S.O. No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004. (Amendment) Regulations, 2004, vide   S.O. No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004. (Amendment) Regulations, 2004, vide   S.O. No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004. (Amendment) Regulations, 2004, vide   S.O. No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004. Maintenance of records
11. The Designated Service Provider shall maintain such books, records and documents, in such manner and for such period as may be specified by the Board. Chapter III GRANT AND REVOCATION OF UNIQUE IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS Format of application
12. (1) Every application made by a specified investor or a related person of a specified intermediary or specified listed company being a natural person, under regulation 7, 8 or 9, as the case may be, shall be in Form A specified in the Schedule and shall be accompanied with a fee as specified in the notifications issued under regulations 4, 5 or 6, as the case may be.
(2) Every application made by a specified listed company, specified intermediary, a related person of any of the above or a specified investor, not being a natural person, under regulation 7, 8 or 9, as the case may be, shall be in Form B specified in the Schedule and shall be accompanied with a fee as specified in the notifications issued under regulations 4, 5 or 6, as the case may be. Procedure on receipt of application
13. (1) Upon receipt of an application for allotment of unique identification number under these regulations, the Designated Service Provider shall, if the application is not found defective, allot to the applicant a unique identification number within thirty days of receipt of the application. Where it is found that any such application is defective, the Designated Service Provider
(2) may intimate the defect to the applicant and give it an opportunity to rectify the defect within a period of fifteen days from the date of such intimation or within such further period which the Board may allow on a request made in this behalf. Where any defect in the application is intimated under sub-section (2) and the defect is
(3) not rectified by the applicant within the said period of fifteen days or, as the case may be, further period allowed under sub-regulation (2), then, notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Chapter, Designated Service Provider shall refer the application to the Board, which may either direct the Designated Service Provider to allot the unique identification number or reject the application after giving an opportunity to the applicant to make representations. Criteria to determine specified intermediaries, specified listed companies and specified investors
14. For the purposes of specifying the intermediaries, listed companies or investors under subregulation (1) of regulation 4 or regulation 5 or sub-regulation (1) of regulation 6, the Board may take into consideration the following factors : with regard to intermediaries or other entities-their kind and the nature of (a) functions performed by them, their networth and other similar factors; with regard to listed companies or companies which intend to get their securities (b) listed-their paid up capital, the number of their public shareholders, the volume of trading in their securities, the proposed issue size and other similar factors; and, with regard to investors - the quantum of investment made by them in the (c) securities of any listed company or their volume of trading in securities in a particular financial year. Duty not to make false statements and revocation of unique identification number
15. (1) No person shall make a false statement or misrepresent any fact in any application made to the Designated Service Provider under these regulations.
(2) Every application made to the Designated Service Provider under these regulations and every intimation made under regulation 17 shall be certified to be true and correct: (a) in case of an intermediary, by its whole time director, managing partner, managing trustee or sole proprietor, as the case may be, and by its compliance officer; (b) in case of a listed company, by its whole time director and its company secretary or auditor, and (c) in case of an investor, by him. Revocation of unique identification number
16. (1) Where it is found that the unique identification number was obtained by a person through fraud or misrepresentation or was allotted to him under a mistake, the Board may, without prejudice to other action that it may take under any law for the time being in force and after giving him an opportunity of making representations, revoke the unique identification number allotted to him or to the related persons.
(2) Upon revocation of the unique identification number of a person, the provisions of these regulations shall apply from the date of revocation, as if no unique identification number was allotted to him.
(3) Every order passed by the Board under these regulations shall be in writing. 1[Power of the Board to issue clarifications
16A. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of circulars or notes.] No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004. Chapter IV CONTINUING OBLIGATIONS Duty to intimate changes
17. (1) Every person who has been allotted a unique identification number under these regulations shall intimate the changes if any, in the particulars submitted by him in the application, to the Designated Service Provider, in such electronic or other manner as may be specified by the Board, within thirty days of occurrence of the change.
(2) Every intermediary shall exercise due diligence so satisfy itself that its clients, being specified investors, have complied with sub-regulation (1). Duty to seek unique identification numbers for newly added related persons
18. (1) Every specified intermediary and other entity shall within thirty days of any person becoming a related person, ensure that such person has been allotted or has applied for a unique identification number.
(2) Every specified listed company shall within thirty days of any person becoming a related person, ensure that such person has been allotted or has applied for a unique identification number. Chapter V ACTION IN CASE OF VIOLATION Action for acting, dealing etc. without obtaining unique identification number
19. Any person who issues any security or buys, sells or deals in any securities in contravention of these regulations shall be liable for— (a) action under sub-section (4) of section 11 of the Act; (b) delisting of securities; (c) being debarred from acting in any capacity in any security market related institution; (d) such other action as may be deemed appropriate by the Board in the facts and circumstances of the case : Provided that no such action shall be taken without following the procedure laid down under the relevant rules or regulations. Action for giving false statement
20. Any person who makes any false statement or misrepresents any fact in any application or other document submitted to the Designated Service Provider shall, without prejudice to any action which may be taken under section 24 of the Act by the Board, be liable for action under section 15HB of the Act. Action for failure to intimate changes
21. Any person who being required to do so, fails to intimate changes as required in 1[regulation 17] shall be liable for action under clause (b) of section 15A of the Act. Action for failure to make application for newly added related persons
22. Any intermediary or listed company who fails to ensure compliance with 2[regulation 18] shall be liable for action under section 15HB of the Act. 3[CHAPTER VI POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases.
23. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new  products, processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  in  live  environment  of  regulatory  sandbox  in  the securities markets.
